I stepped into an avalanche
It covered up my soul
When I am not this hunchback that you see
I sleep beneath the golden hill
You, who wish to conquer pain
You, must learn, learn to serve me wellYou strike my side by accident
As you go down to your goal
This cripple here that you clothe and feed
Is neither starved nor cold
He does not ask for your company
Not at the centre, the centre of the world
And I am on a pedestal
You did not raise me there
Your laws do not compel me now
To kneel grotesque and bare
I, myself, am the pedestal
For this ugly hump at which you stare
You who wish to conquer pain
You must learn what makes me kind
The crumbs of love that you offer me
Are the crumbs I’ve left behind
Your pain is no credential here
It’s just a shadow of my woundI have begun to ask for you
I, who have no greed
I have begun to long for you
I, who have no need
You say you’ve gone away from me
But I can feel you when you breatheDo not dress in those rags for me
I know you are not poor
And do not love me quite so fiercely now
When you know that you are not sure
It is your turn, my beloved one
It is your flesh that I wearThe Captain’s fore-arm like bunched-up rope
With A-N-I-T-A wriggling free on a skull’n’dagger
And a portrait of Christ, nailed to an anchor
Etched into his upper…O o o’ Cabin Fever!
O o o’ Cabin Fever!Slams his fucking tin-dish down
Our Captain, takes time to crush
Some Bloo-Bottles glowin in his gruel
With a lump in his throat, and lumpy mush
Thumbing a scrapbook stuck up with clag
And a morbid lump of Love in his flags
Done is the Missing, now all that remain
Is to sail forever, upon the stainCabin Fever! O o o’ Cabin Fever!The captains free-hand is a cleaver
Which he fashions his beard, and he rations his jerky!
And carves his peg outta the finest mahogany!
Or was it Ebony?
Tallies up his loneliness, notch by notch
‘Cause the sea offers nothing to hold or touch
Notch by notch, winter by winter
Notch by notch, winter by winter
Now his leg is whittled, right down to a splinterO o Cabin Fever! O o o Cabin Fever!
O the rollin sea keeps rollin on!
O the rollin sea keeps rollin on!
She’s everywhere! now that she’s gone!
She’s everywhere! now that she’s gone! Gone! Gone!
O Cabin Fever!Welcome to his table, Beloved-Unconscious
Raisin her host of hair from her crooks
And struggling to summon one of her looks!
His arm now like coiled s-s-s-snakes
Whips all the bottles that he’s drunken
Like crystal – skittles about the cabin
Of a ship they’d been sailing
Five years sunkenAlong crags and sunless cracks I go
Up rib of rock, down spine of stone
I dare not slumber where the night winds whistle
Lest her creeping-soul clutch this heart of thistleO the same God that abandoned her
Has, in turn abandoned me
And softenin’ the turf with my tears
I dug a Well of MiseryAnd, in that Well of Misery
Hangs a bucket full Sorrow
Which swings slow an’ actin’ like a bell
Its toll is dead and hollowDown that well lies the long-lost dress
Of my lil floatin girl
That muffles a tear that you let fall
All down that Well of MiseryPut ya shoulder to the handle, if ya dare
And hoist that bucket, hither
Crank n hoist n hoist n crank
Till ya muscles waste n witherO the same God that abandoned her
Has, in turn abandoned me
Deep in the Desert of Despair
I wait at the Well Of MiseryAh wanna tell ya ’bout a girl
You know, she lives in apt. 29
Why? That’s the one right up top a mine
I start to cry, I start to cry
Oh, I hear her walkin’
Walkin’ barefoot cross the floor-boards
All through this lonesome night
And I hear her crying too
Hot-tears come splashin’ on down
Leaking through the cracks
Down upon my face
I catch ’em in my mouth!
Walk and cry, walk and cryFrom her to eternity!
From her to eternity!
From her to eternity!I read her diary on her sheets
Scrutinizing every little piece of dirt
Tore out a page and stuffed it inside my shirt
Fled outta the window
And shinning it down the vine
Outta her nightmare
And back into mine
Mine! O Mine!From her to eternity!
From her to eternity!
From her to eternity!
Cry! Cry! Cry!She’s wearing them bloo-stockens, I bet!
And standin’ like this with my ear to the ceiling
Listen I know it must sound absurd
But I can hear the most melancholy sound I ever heard!
Walk and cry, kneel and cry!From her to eternity!
From her to eternity!Oh tell me why? Why? Why?
Why the ceiling still shakes?
Why the fixtures turn to serpents snakes?
This desire to possess her is a wound
And it’s naggin’ at me like a shrew
But I know, that to possess her
Is, therefore, not to desire herO o o then ya know
That lil girl would just have to go!
Go! Go!
From her to eternity!Born of the river,
Born of its ever-changing, never-changing murky water
Huck standing like a Saint, upon its deck
If ya wanna catch a Saint,
Then bait ya hook, let’s take a walk..
‘O come to me!, O come to me!’ is what the dirty-city
Say to Huck…
He go woah-woah, woah woah!
Saint Huck! Huck!
Straight into the arms of the city go Huck,
Down the beckoning streets of op-po-tunity
Huck whistles his favorite River-song…
And a bad-blind-nigger at the piano
Buts a sinister-bloo-lilt into that sing-a-long
Huck senses somethings wrong!!
Sirens wail in the city,
And lil-Ulysses turn to putty
Ol’ man River’s got a bone to pick!
Our boys hardly got a bone to suck!
He go woah-woah, woah woah!
Saint Huck! Huck!
The mo-o-o-on, its huge cycloptic eye
Watches the city streets contract,
Watched twist and cripple and crack.
Saint Huck goes on a dog’s-leg now
Saint Huck goes on a dog’s-leg nowWhy, you know the story!
Ya wake up one morning and you find your a thug
Cracking for knuckles in some dive,
Ya fingers hot and itchin, blowing smoke-rings
Ya bull neck bristling…
Still Huck he ventures on whistlingDeath reckons Huckleberrys time is up,
O woah woah woah!
Saint Huck! Huck!Yonder go Huck, minus pocket-watch an’ wallet gone
Skin shrink-wraps his skeleton
No wonder he gets thinner, what with his cold’n’skinny dinners!
Saint Huck-a-Saint Elvis, Saint Huck-a-Saint Elvis
O you remember the song ya used to sing-a-long
Shifting the river-trade on that ol’ steamer
Life is just a dream!
But ya trade in the Mighty ol’ man River
For the Dirty ol’ Man Latrine!
The brothel shift
The hustle’n’the bustle and the green-backs rustle
And all the sexy-cash
And the randy-cars
And the two dollar fucks
O o o ya outta luck, ya outta luck
Woah-woah-woah-woah
Woah-woah-woah-woahSaint Huck! Huck!She loves me, she loves me not
She loves me, she loves me notWe-e-ll, ah’ve spent seven days and seven nights
Tryin to get sunk in this brine
Don’t turn on ya water-works
‘Cause ah got me a set of water-wings, right?!
Insects suicide against the window
And my heart goes out to those lil flies
There’s a buzzin in my ear
but it’s more of her black-mail, ham Shakespeare & lies
Wings off Flies, She loves me, she loves me not
O o o o oh she loves me not!!Lord, Ah’ve discovered the recipe of Heaven
Ya git solitude and mix with sanctuary and silence,
then bake it!
Listen, I plead guilty to misanthropy
So hang me! Ah’d appreciate it!!
Witness her gate-crash my tiny hell
With some obscene tête-à-tête
If ya wanna talk to me about Love’n’Pain
Consult my ulcer, it’d be happy to co-operate
Wings off Flies, she loves me, loves me not
Eh, Joe! another outa do the job.Time to drown our lil fire, ya can keep the ashes,
Now bye bye, bye, bye, see ya in a pigs eye!
Ah will be one, in need of no-one
In this, my deepest dive..
Filler up, Joe..
Hey! Ah am obliged! Ah am obliged!
Wings off Flies, She loves me, she loves me not
Wings off Flies etc… ad infinitumWho’ll build a box for black Paul?
Ah’m enquirin on behalf of his soul
Ah’d be beholdin to ya all
For a lil information just a little indication
Just who’ll dig the hole?
When ya done ransackin his room
grabbin any damn thing that shines
throw the scraps down on the street
Like all his books and his notes
All the junk that he wrote
The whole fuckin lot right up in smoke
Ain’t there nothin sacred anymore
Who will build a box for Black Paul?
And their shootin off his guns
And their shootin off their mouths
Sayin ‘Fuck with us… and Die’
(But see that rat of fear go scuttle in their skulls)
‘Cover that eye!’ ‘Cover that frozen eye!!’Armies of ants, wade up the lil red streams
they’re heading for the mother-pool
O lord, its cruel, O man it’s hot!
And some of them ants they just climb to the spot
Black-puppet, in a hoop up against the stoning-wall
Blud-puppet go to sleep, ma-ma won’t scold ya anymore
Who’ll build a box for Black Paul?Who’ll build a box for Black Paul?
Who’ll carry it up the hill?
Who’ll bury it in the black-soil?
And from the woods and the thickets
Come the ghosts of his victims
‘We love you!’
‘Ah love you!’
‘and this will not hurt a bit,
‘we’ll go up, up, up, up, up, up into Death
‘up, up, up, up inhale its special breath
‘O yeah, Death favours those who favor death’
Here is the stone, and this the inscription it bare,
‘Below Lies black Paul, Under The Upper..
‘But Above and Beyond The Surface-Flat-Fall There.’And all the angels come on down
And all the men and women crowd around
And all the widows weeping into their skirts
And all the lil gals and the lil Boys
And the scribes with poison-pens poised
All the hullaballoo, all the noise
All the hullaballoo, all the noise
All the hullaballoo, all the noise
Black Paul clears his throat of black blud
And singing in the voice of a lonely boy…‘Don’t ask us’ say the critics and the hacks
The pen-pushers and the quacks
‘We jus cum to get dat facks!’
‘We jus cum to get dat facks!’
Hey, hey, hey, hey…We-e-e-ll, ah have cryed one thousand tears
Ah’ve cried a thousand tears its true
And the next stormy night you know,
That ah’m still cryin’ them for you.
Well, ah had a gal she was so sweet
Red dress and long red hair hangin down
And heaven just ain’t heaven
Without that lil girl hangin aroundWell, ya know ah’ve bin a bad-man
And lord knows ah dun some good things too
But ah confess, my soul will never rest
Until you, until you build
Until ya built a box for my gal, too.‘Not I,’ said the widow, adjusting this veil
‘Ah will not drive the nail,
‘Or cart his puppet-body home,
‘for ah done that one thousand times before,
‘Yeah! ah done that one thousand times or more,
‘And why should ah dress his wounds?
‘When he has wounded my dress, nighty,
‘Right across the floor
‘Here is the hammer, that build the scaffold,
and build the box…
Here is the shovel, that dug the hole,
n this ground of rocks…
And here is the pile of stones!
and for each one planted, God only knows,
a blue-rose grown…
These are the true Demon-Flowers!!
These are the true Demon-Flowers!!
Blue-Black every one! Stand back everyone!
Who’ll build a box for Black Paul?
Who’ll carry it up the hill?Looka yonder! Looka yonder! Looka yonder! A big black cloud come! O comes to Tupelo. Comes to TupeloYonder on the horizon. Stopped at the mighty river and. Sucked the damn thing dry. Tupelo-o-o, O Tupelo. In a valley hides a town called Tupelo.Distant thunder rumble. Rumble hungry like the Beast. The Beast it cometh, cometh down. Wo wo wo-o-o. Tupelo bound. Tupelo-o-o. Yeah Tupelo. The Beast it cometh, Tupelo bound.Why the hen won’t lay no egg. Can’t get that cock to crow. The nag is spooked and crazy. O God help Tupelo! O God help Tupelo!Ya can say these streets are rivers. Ya can call these rivers streets. Ya can tell ya self ya dreaming buddy. But no sleep runs this deep. No! No sleep runs this deep. No sleep runs this deep. Women at their windows. Rain crashing on the pane. Writing in the frost. Tupelos’ shame. Tupelo’s shame. O God help Tupelo! O God help Tupelo!O go to sleep lil children. The sandmans on his way. O go to sleep lil children. The sandmans on his way. But the lil children know. They listen to the beating of their blood.They listen to the beating of their blood. The sandman’s mud! The sandman’s mud! And the black rain come down. Water water everywhere. Where no bird can fly no fish can swim. Where no bird can fly no fish can swim. No fish can swim. Until The King is born! Until The King is born! In Tupelo! Tupelo-o-o! Til The King is born in Tupelo!In a clap-board shack with a roof of tin. Where the rain came down and leaked within. A young mother frozen on a concrete floor. With a bottle and a box and a cradle of straw. Tupelo-o-o! O Tupelo! With a bundle and a box and a cradle of straw.Well Saturday gives what Sunday steals. And a child is born on his brothers heels. Come Sunday morn the first-born dead. In a shoe-box tied with a ribbon of red. Tupelo-o-o! Hey Tupelo! In a shoe-box buried with a ribbon of red.O ma-ma rock you lil’ one slow. O ma-ma rock your baby. O ma-ma rock your lil’ one slow. O God help Tupelo! O God help Tupelo! Mama rock your lil’ one slow. The lil one will walk on Tupelo. Tupelo-o-o! Yeah Tupelo! And carry the burden of Tupelo. Tupelo-o-o! O Tupelo! Yeah! The King will walk on Tupelo! Tupelo-o-o! O Tupelo! He carried the burden outa Tupelo! Tupelo-o-o! Hey Tupelo! You will reap just what you sow.O say goodbye to the little girl tree.
O you know that I must say goodbye.
To the little girl tree.
This wall I built around you.
Is made out of stone-lies.
O little girl the truth would be.
An axe in thee.
O father look to your daughter.
Brick of grief and stricken morter.
With this ring.
This silver hoop of wire.
I bind your maiden mainstem.
Just to keep you as a child.O say goodbye to the little girl tree.
O you know that I must say goodbye.
To my little girl tree.
How fast your candy bones.
Reached out for me.
I must say goodbye to your brittle bones.
Crying out for me.
O you know that I must say goodbye.
O goodbye.
Even though you will betray me.
The very minute that I leave.O say goodbye to the little girl tree.
O Lord you know that I must say goodbye.
To that little girl tree.
I rise up her girl-child lumps and slipping knots.
Into her laden boughs.
And amongst her roping limbs.
Like a swollen neck vein branching.
Into smaller lesser veins.
That must all just sing and say goodbye.
And let her blossom veils fly.
Her velvet gown.
Down down down.
Down down down.
Down down down and goodbye.
For you know that I must say goodbye.To a rhythm softly tortured.
Of a motion back and forth.
That’s a rhythm sweetly tortured.
O that’s the rhythm of the orchard.
And you know that I must say goodbye.
To that little girl tree.
O goodbye.
Yes goodbye.
For you know that I must die.
Down down down.
Down down down.
Down down down and goodbye.
For you know that I must die.
Yes you know that I must die.
O-o you know that I must die.Woo-wooooooo Woo!
In the name of pain!
(In the name of pain and suffering)
In the name of pain!
(In the name of pain and suffering)
There comes a train!
(There comes a train)
Yeah!
A long black train
(There comes a train)
Lord, a long black train.Woo-woo! Woo-woo!Punched from the tunnel
(The tunnel of love is long and lonely)
Engines steaming like a fist
(A fistful of memories)
Into the jolly jaw of morning
(Yeah! O yeah!)
O baby it gets smashed!
(You know that it gets smashed)
O baby it gets smashed!
(You know that it gets smashed)I kick every goddamn splinter.
Into all the looking eyes in the world.
Into all the laughing eyes.
Of all the girls in the world.
Oooooo-woooooh.
She ain’t never comin back.
She ain’t never comin back.
She ain’t never comin back.
She ain’t never comin back.
And the name of the pain is…
And the name of the pain is…
And the name of the pain is…
And the name of the pain is…
The name of the pain is.
A train long-sufferingOn rails of pain
(On rails of pain and suffering)
There comes a train
(There comes a train long-suffering)
On rails of pain
(On rails of pain and suffering)
O baby blow it’s whistle in the rainWoo-oo Woo! Woo-oo Woo!Who’s the engine driver?
(The engine drivers over yonder)
His name is Memory
(His name is Memory)
O Memory is his name
(Woooooo-wo!)
Destination: Misery
(Pain and misery)
O pain and misery
(Pain and misery)
O pain and misery.
Hey! Hey!
(Pain and misery)
Hey! That’s a sad lookin sack!
Oooh that’s a sad lookin sack!
And the name of the pain is…
And the name of the pain is…
Ooh the name of the pain is.
A train long-suffering.There is a train!
(It’s got a name)
Yeah! It’s a train long-suffering.
O Lord a train!
(A long black train)
Lord! Of pain and suffering.
Each night so black
(O yeah! So black)
And in the darkness of my sack.
I’m missing you baby
(I’m missing you)
And I just dunno what to do
(dunno what to do)
(Train long-suffering Train long-suffering)
Train long-suffering Train long-suffering.
O she ain’t never comin back.
O she ain’t never comin back.
O she ain’t never comin back.
O she ain’t never comin back.
And the name of the pain is…
And the name of the pain is…
The name of the train is…
The name of the train is.
Pain and suffering.Mmmmm Mmmmmm Mmmmm
I am the black crow king
Mmmmmmm Mmmmm Mmmmmmm
I am the black crow king
Keeper of the nodding corn
Bam! Bam! Bam! Bam!
All the hammers are a-talking
All the nails are a-singing
So sweet and low
You can hear it in the valley
Where live the lame and the blind
They climb the hill out of it’s belly
They leave with mean black boots on.
“I just made a simple gesture
They jumped up and nailed it to my shadow
My gesture was a hooker
You know, my shadow’s made of timber.”And the storm is a-rolling
And the storm is a-rolling
All down on meAnd I’m still here rolling after everybody’s gone
And I’m still here rolling after everybody’s gone
Ah’m still here rolling and I’m left on my own
The blackbirds have all flown!
Everyone’s rolled on!I am the black crow king
Keeper of the trodden corn
I am the black crow king
Won’t say it again
And the rain it raineth daily, Lord
And wash away my clothes
I surrender up my arms
To a company of crows
I am the black crow king
I won’t say it again
And all the thorns are a-crowning
King ruby on each spine
And the spears are a-sailing
O my o myAnd the storm is a-rolling
The storm is a-rolling
All down on me
And I’m still here rolling after everybody’s gone
I’m still here rolling after everybody’s gone
I’m still here rolling and left on my own
Those blackbirds they have all flown and
I am on my ownI am the black crow king
Keeper of the forgotten corn
The King! The King!
I’m the king of nuthin’ at all
The hammers are a-talking
The nails are a-singing
The thorns are a-crowning him
The spears are a-sailing
The crows are a-mocking
The corn is a-nodding
The storm is a-rolling
The storm is a-rolling
The storm is a-rolling down
The storm is a-rolling down
The storm is a-rolling
Down on me
Rolling down on me
Rolling down on meThese chains of sorrow, they are heavy, it is true
And these locks cannot be broken, no, not with one thousand keys
O Jailer, you wear a ball-n-chain you cannot see
You can lay your burden on me
You can lay your burden down on me
You can lay your burden down upon me
But you cannot lay down those memories.Woooo wooo wooo
Woooo wooo wooo
Here I go!
Knockin’ on Joe!
This square foot of sky will be mine til I die
Knockin’ on Joe
Woooo wooo wooo
All down the row.
Knockin’ on Joe.O Warden I surrender to you
Your fists can’t hurt me anymore
You know, these hands will never wash
These dirty Death Row floors
O Preacher, come closer, you don’t scare me anymore
Just tell Nancy not to come here
Just tell her not to come here anymore
Tell Nancy not to come
And let me die in the memory of her arms.O wooo wooo wooo
Wooo wooo woooo
All down the row.
Knockin’ on Joe.
O You kings of halls and ends of halls
You will die within these walls
And I’ll go, all down the row
Knockin’ on Joe.O Nancy’s body is a coffin, she wears my tombstone at her head
O Nancy’s body is a coffin, she wears my tombstone at her head
She wears her body like a coffin
She wears a dress of gold and red
She wears a dress of gold and red
She wears a dress of red and gold
Grave-looters at my coffin before my body’s even cold.It’s a door for when I go
Knockin’ on Joe
These hands will never mop your dirty Death Row floors
No! You can hide! You can run!
O but your trial is yet to come
O you can run! You can hide!
But you have yet to be tried!
You can lay your burden down here
You can lay your burden down here
Knockin’ on Joe
You can lay your burden upon me
You can lay your burden down upon me
Knockin’ on Joe
You can’t hurt me anymore
Knockin’ on JoeI’m a wanted man, wanted man…
I’m wanted, I’m a wanted man…
Oh yeah…
Yeah…
Ah honey, I’m a wanted manI’m a wanted man in California
I’m a wanted man in Buffalo
I’m a wanted man in Kansas City
I’m a wanted man in Ohio
I’m a wanted man in Mississippi
They want me in old Cheyenne
Wherever you may look tonight
You will see this wanted manI might be in Colorado or Georgia by the sea
Working for some man who may not know at all who I might be
If you ever see me comin’ and you know just a who I am
Don’t breathe a word to no one buddy, cause I’m a wanted manWanted man in Albuquerque
Wanted man in Syracuse
Wanted man in Tallahassee
Wanted man in Baton Rouge
Wanted man in Arizona
Wanted man in Galveston
Wanted man in El Dorado
This wanted man’s in great demandIf you ever catch me sleepin’
Just see the price flashin’ ‘bove my head
Well take look again my friend
That’s a gun pointed at your headWanted man by Lucy Watson
Wanted man by Jesse Brown
Wanted man by Nellie Johnson
Wanted man in this next townWanted man by the Boller Sisters
Wanted man by Kid Callahan
Hey Darlin’ don’t you tell me you don’t want me
Cause I’m a wanted manA wanted man who’s lost his will to live
A wanted man who won’t lay down
There’s a woman kneelin’ on my grave
Pushin’ daisies in the groundWanted man in the Windy City
Wanted man in Tennessee
Wanted man in Broken Arrow
Wanted man in Wounded Knee
Wanted man in Jackson Town
Wanted man in El Paso
I got bounties on my head in towns
I wouldn’t ever think to goWanted Man in Arizona
Wanted man in Louisville
Wanted man deep in Death Valley
Wanted man up in the Hollywood HillIf the Devil comes collectin’
Cause he doesn’t know I’m a wanted man
He’d better wear a six gun on his hip
And hold another in his handIf you love the wanted man
You best hold him while you can
Cause you’re gonna wake up one mornin’
And find the man you wanted, he is goneWanted man in New York City
Wanted man in San Anton’
Wanted man down in Lorado
Wanted man in Tupelo
Wanted man in the state of Texas
Wanted man in the state of Maine
This wanted man’s in the state of leavin’ ya baby
Jumpin’ on a midnight trainWanted man in every cat house
Wanted man in a many saloons
Wanted man is a ghost in hundred homes
A shadow in a thousand roomsWanted man down in St. Louis
Wanted man in New Orleans
Wanted man in Mussel Bay
Wanted man in Cripple Creek
Wanted man in Detroit City
Wanted man in San Anton’
But there’s one place I’m not wanted lord
It’s the place that I call homeWanted man…
Wanted man…
If the devil comes collectin’
He better hold a six gun in his handBlind Lemon Jefferson is a-comin.
Tap tap tappin with his cane.
Blind Lemon Jefferson is a-comin.
Tap tap tappin with his cane.
His last ditch lies down the road of trials
Half filled with rain.O Sycamore, Sycamore!
Stretch your arms across the storm.
Down fly two greasy brother-crows
They hop n bop They hop n bop They hop n bop
Like the tax-man come to call.
They go knock knock! knock knock!
Hop n bop hop n bop
They slap a death-writ on his door.Here come the Judgement train
Git on board!
And turn that big black engine home.
O let’s roll!
Let’s roll!
Down the tunnel.
The terrible tunnel of his world.
Waiting at his final station
Like a bigger blacker third bird.
O let’s roll!
Let’s roll!O his road is dark and lonely.
He don’t drive no cadillac.
If that sky serves as his eyes
Then that moon’s a cataract.
Let’s roll!
Yeah let’s roll!Mary, grab the baby, the river’s rising
Muddy water taking back the land
The old-frame house, she can’t take-a one more beating
Ain’t no use to stay and make a standWell the morning light shows water in the valley
Daddy’s grave just went below the line
Things to say, you just can’t take ’em with ya
This flood will swallow all you’ve left behindWon’t be back to start all over
Cause what I felt before is gone
Mary, take the child, the river’s rising
Muddy water taking back my homeThe road is gone, there’s just one way to leave here
Turn my back on what I’ve left below
Shifting land, broken farms around me
Muddy water’s changing all I knowIt’s hard to say just what I’m losing
Ain’t never felt so all alone
Mary, take the child, the river’s rising
Muddy water taking back my homeWon’t be back to start all over
Cause what I felt before is gone
Mary, take the child, the river’s rising
Muddy water’s changing all I know
Muddy water’s changing all I know
Lord, this muddy water is taking back my homeYeah, my baby left me this morning
And I don’t care now, I don’t care what the people sayYeah, my baby left me this morning
Lord knows I did everything I could
And I don’t care what the people say
Yeah I did everything I could, that I couldLord knows I did everything I could
I tried to satisfy her worried mind, that’s what I did
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I did every – I did everything I could, I did everything I could
Lord knows I did, I did what I could
I tried to satisfy her worried mindYou know she was nothing but trouble, trouble
You know she was nothing but trouble, trouble
She keep me worried all the time
Oh, god knows, god knows her movements are killing me
God knows her movements are killing meYeah, yeah, yeah, my baby stayed out all night long, all night long
She keep me worried all the time
Yeah, yeah, yeah, my baby stayed out all night long, all night long
She keep me worried all the timeYeah, yeah, yeah, I lay down last night I was thinking, I lay down
I lay down last night I was thinking
Must I kill that woman? Must I kill that woman?
Oh Lord, I get down on my knees
They tell me God forgivin’
They tell me God forgivin’ everything you do
But I don’t care what the people say
I’m gonna kill that woman
I’m gonna kill that woman, God knows
I’m gonna get down on my kneesYesterday the sun was shining but you’re finding the sun it
Don’t shine all the time
A winter day suddenly came your way
And you ran into your mindSleeping Annaleah
Weeping Annaleah
Do you think you’re ready for me?Oh and yesterday is gone forever and ever, never
To be again
You looked for the sunshine, that brought warmth to your mind
But find only rainSleeping Annaleah
Weeping Annaleah
No, you’re not ready for me
But when yesterday becomes a memory, a memory
That we uncovered in time
If you still remember that cold September
I reigned in your mind
Sleeping Annaleah
Weeping Annaleah
Then you’d be ready for meSleeping Annaleah
Weeping Annaleah
Sleeping Annaleah
Weeping Annaleah
Sleeping Annaleah
Weeping AnnaleahShe walks these hills in a long black veil
She visits my grave when the night winds wail
Nobody knows, nobody sees
Nobody knows but meTen years ago, on a cold dark night
Someone was killed ‘neath the town hall light
There were few at the scene, but they all agreed
That the slayer who ran looked a lot like meThe judge, he said: “Son, what is your alibi?
If you were somewhere else, then you won’t have to die”
But I spoke not a word, though it meant my life
For I’d been in the arms of my best friend’s wifeShe walks these hills in a long black veil
She visits my grave when the night winds wail
Nobody knows, nobody sees
Nobody knows but meNow the scaffold is high and eternity is near
She stood in the crowd but shed not a tear
But sometimes at night when the cold winds moan
In a long black veil, she cries on my bonesShe walks these hills in a long black veil
She visits my grave when the night winds wail
Nobody knows, nobody sees
Nobody knows but me
No, no, nobody knows but me
I said nobody knows but me
Yeah nobody knows but meHey Joe
Where you going with that gun in your hand?
Hey Joe
Where you going with that gun in your hand?I’m gonna shoot my baby
I caught her messin round
With another manHey Joe
I heard you shot your baby down
Hey Joe
I heard you shot your baby downYes I did I shot her
I went and put her in the groundHey Joe
Where you gonna run to now?
Hey Joe
Where you gonna run to now?I’m heading way down South
Where I can be free
I’m heading Mexico way
No hangman’s about to put a leash around meAs I walk these narrow streetsWhere a million passin feet have trod before meWith my guitar in my handSuddenly I realize nobody knows meWhere yesterday the multitudeScreamed and cried my name out for a songToday the streets are emptyAnd the crowds have all gone homeI pass a million housesBut there is no place that I belongAll I knew to give youWas song after song after songAll the truths I tried to tell youWere as distant to you as the moonBorn two-hundred years too lateAnd two-hundred years too soonI’m a child of this ageLocked into the pages of your bookAnd when I am but dust and clayAnd all the children stop to take a lookWill they marvel at the miracles I did performAnd the heights I did aspireOr will they tear out the pages of the bookTo light a fireWith the rain on my faceThere is no place where I belongDid you forget this fucking singer so soon?And did you forget my song?And what costume shall the poor girl wear
To all tomorrow’s partiesA hand-me-down dress from who knows where
To all tomorrow’s parties
And where will she go and what shall she do
When midnight comes around
She’ll turn once more to Sunday’s gown
And cry behind the doorAnd what costume shall the poor girl wear
To all tomorrow’s partiesWhy silks and plumes of yesterday’s gowns
To all tomorrow’s parties
And what shall she do with Thursday’s rags
When Monday comes around
She’ll turn once more to Sunday’s clown
And cry behind the doorAnd what costume shall the poor girl wear
To all tomorrow’s partiesFor Thursday’s child is Sunday’s clown
For whom none will go mourning
A blackened shroud, a hand-me-down gown
Of rags and silks, a costume
Fit for one who sits and cries
For all tomorrow’s partiesBy the time I get to Phoenix, she’ll be rising
And she’ll find that note that I left hanging on the door
And she’ll laugh when she reads the part
That says: “I’m leaving”
Cause I’ve left that girl so many times beforeAnd by the time I get to Albuquerque, she’ll be working
And she’ll take off time just to give me a call
And she’ll hear that phone keep right on ringing and ringing
On the wall, yeah oh, that’s allAnd by the time I make Oklahoma, she’ll be sleeping
She’ll turn softly in her sleep and call my name out low
And then she’ll cry just to think
That I’d really leave her, I left her
But time after time after time I tried to tell her so
But she just didn’t know that I would really go
That I would really go“Oh please, don’t sell me out”
Said the man with the hammer
Hammering the anvil
“I’ve been walking on the road of rocks
And I keep on hammering
Keep on hammering
Keep on hammering
Hammering the anvil.”“Don’t let the sun go down”
Said the man with the fire
Firing the furnace
“I’ve been buried in the snow
And I keep on firing
Keep on firing
Keep on firing
Firing the furnace.”“Don’t talk to me”
Said the man with the chisel
Chiseling the surface
“I’ve been sleeping far too long
And I keep on chiseling
Keep on chiseling
Keep on chiseling
Chiseling the surface.”“I don’t know what you mean”
Said the man with the shovel
Shoveling the ashes
“I’ve been diggin’ in the frozen ground
And I keep on shoveling
Keep on shoveling
Keep on shoveling
Shoveling the ashes.”Chiseling the surface
Firing the furnace
Hammering the anvil
Hammering the anvil“Don’t sell me out”
Said the man with the hammer
Hammering the anvil
“I’ve been walking on the road of rocks
And I keep on hammering
Keep on hammering
Keep on hammering
Hammering the anvil.”Shoveling the ashes
Chiseling the surface
Firing the furnace
Hammering the anvil
Keeping on, keeping on, keeping on
Hammering the anvilI’m gonna keep on, keep on, keep on, keep on hammering
I’m gonna keep on, keep on, keep on, keep on hammeringSomething’s gotten hold of my heart
Keeping my soul and my senses apart
Something’s gotten into my life
Cutting its way through my dreams like a knife
Turning me up and turning me down
Making me smile and making me frownIn a world that was small
I once lived in a time there was peace with no trouble at all
But then you came my way
And a feeling unknown shook my heart, made me want you to stay
All of my nights and all of my daysI gotta tell you now
Something’s gotten hold of my hand
Dragging my soul to a beautiful land
Something has invaded my nights
Painting my sleep with a colour so bright
Changing the grey and changing the blue
Scarlet for me and scarlet for youI’ve got to know if this is the real thing
I’ve got to know what’s making my heart sing
You smile and I am lost for a lifetime
Each minute spent with you is the right time
Every hour, every day
You touch me and my mind goes astrayI gotta tell you now
Something’s gotten hold of my hand
Dragging my soul to a beautiful land
Something has invaded my nights
Painting my sleep with a colour so bright
Changing the grey and changing the blue
Scarlet for me and scarlet for youJesus met the woman at the well
Jesus met the woman at the well
And he told her, everything that she’d done, that she’d doneAnd he said, woman, look-a here woman
Tell me where is your husband?
She said whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, I don’t have oneHe said, woman, look-a here woman
They tell me you have five husbands
And that man you have now sure ain’t oneShe went running, crying, God help me
She said whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, you must be the prophet
She said whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, you must be the prophet
Because you told me everything that I’ve done, that I’ve doneSay goodbye, my one true lover
And we’ll steal a lover’s song
How it breaks my heart to leave you
Now the carnival has goneOh my love, the dawn is breaking
And my tears are falling rain
For the carnival is over
We may never meet againLike a drum my heart was beating
And your kiss was sweet as wine
But the joys of love are fleeting
For Pierrot and ColumbineNow the cloak of night is falling
This will be our last goodbye
Though the carnival is over
I will love you till I die
I will love you till I die
Yeah, I will love you till I dieDown the road I look and there runs Mary
Hair of gold and lips like cherries
We go down to the river where the willows weep
Take a naked root for a lover’s seat
That rose out of the bitten soil
But bound to the ground by creeping ivy coils
O Mary you have seduced my soul
(And I don’t know right from wrong)
Forever a hostage of your child’s worldAnd then I ran my tin-cup heart along
The prison of her ribs
And with a toss of her curls
That little girl goes wading in
Rollin her dress up past her knee
Turning these waters into wine
Then she platted all the willow vinesMary in the shallows laughing
Over where the carp dart
Spooked by the new shadows that she cast
Across these sad waters and across my heartAnd no-one saw the carny go
And the weeks flew by
Until they moved on the show
Leaving his caravan behind
It was parked out on the south east ridge
And as the company crossed the bridge
With the first rain filling the bone-dry river bed
It shone, just so, upon the edge
Away, away, we’re sad, they saidDog-boy, atlas, half-man, the geeks, the hired hands
There was not one among them that did not cast an eye behind
In the hope that the carny would return to his own kind
And the carny had a horse, all skin and bone
A bow-backed nag, that he named “Sorrow”
Now it is buried in a shallow grave
In the then parched meadowAnd the dwarves were given the task of digging the ditch
And laying the nag’s carcass in the ground
And boss Bellini, waving his smoking pistol around
Saying, “The nag is dead meat”
“We can’t afford to carry dead weight”
The whole company standing about
Not making a sound
And turning to dwarves perched on the enclosure gate
The boss says “Bury this lump of crow bait”And then the rain came hammering down
Everybody running for their wagons
Tying all the canvas flaps down
The mangy cats growling in their cages
The bird-girl flapping and squawking around
The whole valley reeking of wet beast
Wet beast and rotten hay
Freak and brute creation
Packed up and on their wayThe three dwarves peering from their wagon’s hind
Moses says to Noah “We shoulda dugga deepa one”
Their grizzled faces like dying moons
Still dirty from the digging done
And Charlie, the eldest of the three, said
“I guess the carny ain’t gonna show”
And they were silent for a spell
Wishing they’d done a better job of burying SorrowAnd as the company passed from the valley
Into higher ground
The rain beat on the ridge and on the meadow
And on the mound
Until nothing was left, nothing at all
Except the body of Sorrow
That rose in time
To float upon the surface of the eaten soilAnd a murder of crows did circle round
First one, then the others flapping blackly down
And the carny’s van still sat upon the edge
Tilting slowly as the firm ground turned to sludge
And the rain it hammered down
And no-one saw the carny goI say it’s funny how things goI am a crooked man
And I’ve walked a crooked mile
Night, the shameless widow
Doffed her weeds, in a pile
The stars all winked at me
They shamed a child
Your funeral, my trialA thousand Marys lured me
To feathered beds and fields of clover
Bird with crooked wing cast
It’s wicked shadow over
A bauble moon did mock
And trinket stars did smile
Your funeral, my trialHere I am, little lamb
Let all the bells in whoredom ring
All the crooked bitches that she was
(Mongers of pain)
Saw the moon
Become a fang
Your funeral, my trialStranger than kindness
Bottled light from hotels
Spilling everything
Wet hand from the volcano
Sobers your skin
Stranger than kindnessYou caress yourself
And grind my soft cold bones below
Your map of desire
Burned in your flesh
Even a fool can come
A strange lit stair
And find a rope hanging there
Stranger than kindnessKeys rain like heaven’s hair
There is no home there is no bread
We sit at the gate and scratch
The gaunt fruit of passion
Dies in the light
Stranger than kindnessYour sleeping hands journey
They loiter
Stranger than kindness
You hold me so carelessly close
Tell me I’m dirty
Stranger than kindnessThey dragged Jack and his shadow
From the hole
And the bulb that burned above him
Did shine both day and night
And his shadow learned to love his
Little darks and greater lightAnd the sun it shined
And the sun it shined
And the sun it shined
A little strongerJack wept and kissed his shadow “Goodbye”
Spat from their dirty dungeons
Into a truly different din
Shat from their institutions
Into a fully different din
And his shadow soon became a wife
And children plagued his latter life
Until one night he took a skinning knife
And stole into the town
And tracked his shadow downSaid the shadow to Jack Henry
“What’s wrong?”
Jack said “A home is not a hole”
“And Shadow, you’re just a gallow that I hang my body from”
“O Shadow, your a shackle from which my time is never done”
Then he peeled his shadow off in strips
He peeled his shadow off in strips
Then kneeled his shadow on some steps
And cried “What have I done!?”And the sun it shined
And the sun it shined
I say “Love is blind”
“And is it any wonder?!”
“Is it any wonder?!”Jack and his damned shadow
Is gone
And though each one of us are want to duly mourn
And though each one of us are want to duly mourn
‘Tis done in brighter corners now
‘Tis done in brighter corners now
Now that Jack’s black shadow’s goneAnd the sun it shines
And the sun it shines
And the sun it shines
A little stronger
I swear, love is blind
Ooh love is blind
Yeah love is blind
And is it any wonder?
‘Tis done in brighter corners now
‘Tis done in brighter corners now
Now that Jack’s black shadow’s goneIt is for she that the cherry bleeds
That the moon is steeped in milk and blood
That I steal like a robber
From her altar of love
O money lender!
O cloven gender!
I am the fiend hid in her skirts
And it’s as hot as hell in here
Coming at her as I am from aboveHard on for love hard on for love
Hard on for love hard on for loveWell, I swear I seen that girl before
Like she walked straight outta the book of Leviticus
But they can stone me with stones I don’t care
Just as long as I can get to kiss
Those gypsy lips! Gypsy lips!
My aim is to hit this Miss
And I’m movin’ in (I’m movin’ in)
Coming at her like Lazarus from aboveHard on for love hard on for love
Hard on for love hard on for loveThe Lord is my shepard I shall not want
The Lord is my shepard I shall not want
But he leadeth me like a lamb to the lips
Of the mouth of the valley of the shadow of death
I am his rod and his staff
I am his sceptre and shaft
And she is heaven and hell
At whose gates I ain’t been delivered
I’m gunna give them gates a shoveHard on for love hard on for love
Hard on for love hard on for loveAnd her breasts rise and fall
Her breast rise and fall
Her breast rise and fall
Her breast rise and fall
And just when I’m about to get my hands on her
Just when I’m about to get my hands on her
Just when I’m about to get my hands on her
Just when I’m about to get my hands on her
You are beautiful! O dove!Hard on for love hard on for love
Hard on for love hard on for love
Just when I’m about to get my hands on her
Just when I’m about to get my hands on her
Her breasts rise and fall
Her breasts rise and fall
Just when I’m about to get my hands on her
Just when I’m about to get my hands on her
Hard on for love hard on for love
Hard on for love hard on for loveOnce she lay open like a road
Carved apart the madness that I stumbled from
But she fell away
She fell away
Shed me like a skin
She fell away
Left me holding everything
Once the road lay open like a girlAnd we drank and laughed and threw the bottle over
But she fell away
She fell away
I did not see the cracks form
As I knelt to pray
I did not see the crevice yawn, no
Sometimes
At night I feel the end it is at hand
My pistol going crazy in my hand
For she fell away
O she fell away
Walked me to the brink
Then fell awayI did not see her fall
To better days
Sometimes I wonder was she ever there at all
She fell away
She fell away
She fell awayYeah, they came to take me away
Said I’d be sitting here for the rest of my life
But I don’t really care – I shot my wife
And brother, I can’t even remember the reason whyOh, it makes a long time man feel bad
Yeah, it makes a long time man feel bad
Well I ain’t had no love since I don’t know when
It sure makes a long time man feel badWe was down in Jacksonville
A cold winter night
My baby and I, we began to fight
I heated up, and I grabbed my gun
I get so cold on those nights down south
She was laying in a pool right there on the kitchen floor
She looked up at me and began to smile
Her gasping words: “Baby, I love you”
Then she closed those baby blue eyesOh, it makes a long time man feel bad
Yeah, it makes a long time man feel bad
Well I ain’t had no love since I don’t know when
It sure makes a long time man feel bad
Yeah, it makes a long time man feel bad
Yeah, yeah it makes him feel badSometimes I hear you call my name
In the dead of the night, yeah
It sure makes a long time man feel bad
It sure makes a long time man feel bad
It sure makes a long time man feel bad
I ain’t had those arms around me
I ain’t had those lips, those lips, around meIt sure makes a long time man feel bad, so bad
It sure makes a long time man feel bad, so bad
It sure makes a long time man feel bad, yeah so badIt began when they come took me from my home
And put me in Dead Row,
Of which I am nearly wholly innocent, you know.
And I’ll say it again
I..am..not..afraid..to..die.I began to warm and chill
To objects and their fields,
A ragged cup, a twisted mop
The face of Jesus in my soup
Those sinister dinner meals
The meal trolley’s wicked wheels
A hooked bone rising from my food
All things either good or ungood.An the mercy seat is waiting
And I think my head is burning
And in a way I’m yearning
To be done with all this measuring of truth.
An eye for an eye
A tooth for a tooth
An anyway I told the truth
And I’m not afraid to die.Interpret signs and catalogue
A blackened tooth, a scarlet fog.
The walls are bad.
Black. Bottom kind.
They are the sick breath at my hind
They are the sick breath at my hind
They are the sick breath at my hind
They are the sick breath gathering at my hindI hear stories from the chamber
How Christ was born into a manger
And like some ragged stranger
Died upon the cross
And might I say it seems so fitting in its way
He was a carpenter by trade
Or at least that’s what I’m told.Like my good hand I
Tattooed E.V.I.L. across it’s brother’s fist
That filthy five! They did nothing to challenge or resist.In Heaven His throne is made of gold
The ark of His testament is stowed
A throne from which I’m told
All history does unfold.
Down here it’s made of wood & wire
And my body is on fire
And God is never far away.Into the mercy seat I climb
My head is shaved, my head is wired
And like a moth that tries
To enter the bright eye
I go shuffling out of life
Just to hide in death awhile
And anyway I never lied.My kill-hand is called E.V.I.L
Wears a wedding band that’s G.O.O.D
‘Tis a long-suffering shackle
Collaring all that rebel blood.And the mercy seat is waiting
And I think my head is burning
And in a way I’m yearning
To be done with all this measuring of truth.
And an eye for an eye
And a tooth for a tooth
And anyway I told the truth
And I’m not afraid to die.And the mercy seat is burning
And I think my head is glowing
And in a way I’m hoping
To be done with all this weighing up of truth.
An eye for an eye
And a tooth for a tooth
And I’ve got nothing left to lose
And I’m not afraid to die.And the mercy seat is glowing
And I think my head is smoking
And in a way I’m hoping
To be done with all these looks of disbelief.
An eye for an eye
And a tooth for a tooth
And anyway there was no proof
Nor a motive why.And the mercy seat is smoking
And I think my head is melting
And in a way I’m helping
To be done with all this twisting of the truth.
A lie for a lie
And a truth for a truth
And I’ve got nothing left to lose
And I’m not afraid to die.And the mercy seat is melting
And I think my blood is boiling
And in a way I’m spoiling
All the fun with all this truth and consequence.
An eye for an eye
An a truth for a truth
And anyway I told the truth
And I’m not afraid to die.And the mercy seat is waiting
And I think my head is burning
And in a way I’m yearning
To be done with all this measuring of proof.
A life for a life
And a truth for a truth
And anyway there was no proof
But I’m not afraid to tell a lie.And the mercy seat is waiting
And I think my head is burning
And in a way I’m yearning
To be done with all this measuring of truth.
An eye for an eye
And a truth for a truth
And anyway I told the truth
But I’m afraid I told a lie.O My O My
What a wretched life
I was born on the day
That my poor mother died
I was cut from her belly
With a stanley knife
My Daddy did a jig
With the drunk midwifeWho’s that yonder all in flames
Dragging behind him a sack of chains
Who’s that yonder all in flames
Up jumped the Devil and he staked his claimO poor heart
I was doomed from the start
Doomed to play
The villain’s part
I was the baddest Johnny
In the apple cart
My blood was blacker
Than the chambers of a dead nun’s heartWho’s that milling on the courthouse steps
Nailing my face to the hitching fence
Who’s that milling on the courthouse steps
Up jumped the Devil and off he creptO no O no
Where could I go
With my hump of trouble
And my sack of woe
To the digs and deserts of Mexico
Where my neck was safe from the lynching ropeWho’s that yonder laughing at me
Like I was the brunt of some hilarity
Who’s that yonder laughing at me
Up jumped the Devil 1, 2, 3Ha-Ha Ha Ha
How lucky we were
We hit the cathouse
And sampled their wares
We got as drunk
As a couple of Czars
One night I spat out
My lucky starsWho’s that dancing on the jailhouse roof
Stamping on the ramping with a cloven hoof
Who’s that dancing on the jailhouse roof
Up jumped the Devil and said “Here is your man and I got the proof”O no don’t go O no
O slow down Joe
The righteous part
Is straight as an arrow
Take a walk
And you‘ll find it too narrow
Too narrow for the likes of meWho’s that hanging from the gallow tree
His eyes are hollow but he looks like me
Who’s that swinging from the gallow tree
Up jumped the Devil and took my soul from meDown we go Down we go Down we go
The Devil and me Down we go down down down
Hell fire and flames Down we go Down we go
To Eternity Down we go We go down down down
Down we go we go down down down
Down we go the Devil and me to Eternity
We go down down down down down ad infernoO DEANNA
O Deanna!
O DEANNA
Sweet Deanna!
O DEANNA
You know you are my friend, yeah
O DEANNA
And I ain’t down here for your money
I ain’t down here for your love
I ain’t down here for you love or money
I’m down here for you soulNo carpet on the floor
And the winding-cloth holds many moths
Around your Ku Klux furniture
I cum a deaths-head in your frock
We discuss the murder pact
We discuss murder and the murder act
Murder takes the wheel of the Cadillac
And death climbs in the backO DEANNA
This is a car
O DEANNA
This is a gun
O DEANNA
And this a day number one
O DEANNA
Our little crimeworn histories
Black and smoking Xmas trees
And honey, it ain’t a mystery
Why you’re a mystery to meWe will eat out of their pantries
And their parlours
Ashy leavings in their beds
And we’ll unload into their heads
On this mean season
This little angel that I squeezin’
She ain’t been mean to meO DEANNA
O Deanna!
O DEANNA
You are my friend and my partner
O DEANNA
On this house on the hill
O DEANNA
And I ain’t down here for your money
I ain’t down here for your love
I ain’t down here for your love or money
I’m down here for your soulO DEANNA
I am a-knocking
O DEANNA
With my toolbox and my stocking
O DEANNA
And I’ll meet you on the corner
O DEANNA
Yes, you point it like a finger
O DEANNA
And squeeze it’s little thing
O DEANNA
Feel it’s kick, hear its bang
And lets not worry about its issue
Don’t worry about where its been
And don’t worry about where it hits
Cause it ain’t yours to sinO DEANNA
No it just ain’t yours to sin
O DEANNA
Sweet Deanna
O DEANNA
And we ain’t getting any younger
O DEANNA
And I don’t intend gettin’ any older
O DEANNA
The sun a hump at my shoulder
O DEANNA
O Deanna!
O DEANNA
Sweet Deanna
O DEANNA
And I ain’t down here for your money
I ain’t down here for your love
I ain’t down here for your love of money
I’m down here for your soulAlice wakes
It is morning
She is yawning
As she walks about the room
Her hair falls down her breast
She is naked and it is JuneStanding at the window
I wonder if she knows that I can see
Watching Alice rise year after year
Up in her palace, she’s captive thereAlice’s body
Is golden brown
Her hair hangs down
As she stoops to conquer me
First she pulls her stocking on
And then the church bell chimes
Alice climbs into her uniform
The zippers on the side
Watching Alice dressing in her room
It’s so depressing, it’s cruel
Watching Alice dressing in her room
It’s so depressing, it’s trueI stood in the water
In the middle month of winter
My camel skin was torture
I was in a state of nature
The wind, sir, it was wicked
I was so alone
Just as I predicted
My followers were goneAnd I cried ‘Mercy’
Have mercy upon me
And I got down on my kneesThrown into a dungeon
Bread & water was my portion
Faith – my only weapon
To rest the Devil’s legion
The speak-hole would slide open
A viper’s voice would plead
Thick with innuendo
Syphilis and GreedAnd she cried ‘Mercy’
Have mercy upon me
And I told her to get down on her kneesIn a garden full of roses
My hands, tied behind me
My cousin was working miracles
I wondered if he’d find me
The moon was turned toward me
Like a platter made of gold
My death, it almost bored me
So often was it toldAnd I cried ‘Mercy’
I cried mercy on me
Crying ‘Mercy’
Have mercy on meYou better run, you better run and run and run
You better run, you better run
You better run to the City of Refuge
You better run, you better run
You better run to the City of RefugeYou stand before your maker
In a state of shame
Because your robes are covered in mud
While you kneel at the feet
Of a woman of the street
The gutters will run with blood
They will run with blood!You better run, you better run
You better run to the City of Refuge
You better run, you better run
You better run to the City of RefugeIn the days of madness
My brother, my sister
When you’re dragged toward the Hell-mouth
You will beg for the end
But there ain’t gonna be one, friend
For the grave will spew you out
It will spew you out!You better run, you better run
You better run to the City of Refuge
You better run, you better run
You better run to the City of RefugeYou’ll be working in the darkness
Against your fellow man
And you’ll find you’re called to come forth
So you’ll scrub and you’ll scrub
But the trouble is, bud
The blood it won’t wash off
No, it won’t come off!You better run, you better run
You better run to the City of RefugeYou better run, you better run
You better run and run and run
You better run to the City of RefugeLover, lover, goodbye
So slowly goes the night
I trace the print of your body with my hand
Like the map of some forbidden land
I trace the ghosts of your bones
With my trembling hand
Dark is my night
But darker is my day yeah
I must’ve been blind
Out of my mind
Not to read the warning signs
How goes it?
It goes lonely
Goes slowlySo slowly goes the night
Ten lonely days, ten lonely nights
I watch the moon get flayed anew
Until the moon becomes the skinning tool
I send the skins of my sins out to cover and comfort you
I know of a Heaven
And honey I know of a Hell yeah
I hang my head
In my bed
And remember what you said
“One evening, I’m leaving”
And I laughed and checked her breathing
And said darlingGo slowly through the night
O baby, I feel the heal of time
I wake to find you sitting there
Cutting tangles out of your hair
Singing a song that’s all wrong
Hey, but that’s alright, I don’t care
O darling forgive me
For all the misery yeah
I embrace an empty space
And your laughing song it fades
Where goes it?
It goes some place
Where it’s lonelyAnd black as the night
Come back, darling and put things right
I hang my head and cry cry cry
Darling, all night I try
To cease on a reason for this mad mad season
The nights, they are so long now
I can’t remember it being light
Call it sleep, call it death, call it what you like
But only sleep, dear
Only sleep brings you back to life yeah
I hang my headI toss and I sweat
I never never can forget
How goes it?
I’m going, but slowly slowly going
And we both know that it’s gonna be alrightBut it ain’t you who has to cry cry cry
Ten lonely days, ten lonely nights
Since you left my side side sideSunday’s got a slave
Monday’s got one too
Sunday’s got a slave
Monday’s got one too
Our sufferings are countless
Our pleasures are a motley few
Spend all day digging my grave
Now go get Sunday’s slaveTuesday sleeps in the stable
Wednesday’s in chains
Tuesday gathers up the crumbs under the table
Wednesday dare not complain
My heart has collapsed on the tracks of a run-a-way train
Just whisper his name
And here comes Sunday’s slaveThe hands in the stable are willing and able to pay
If you feel at loss, man, just who is the boss-man
Ask the blood on one of its bad days
For his nerve is to serve but the service is a mockery
He insists that he piss in your fist
But he still takes the money anyway
The master’s a bastard
But don’t tell Sunday’s slaveThursday’s angered the master
O.K. so Friday’s gonna pay
Thursday’s angered the master
Yeah, so Friday’s gonna pay
One night on the rack and he’s back saddling up Saturday
You can only whisper his name
But not on Sundays
Never on Sundays
O Not on Sunday’s slaveSugar Sugar Sugar
That man is bad
The road he drives you down
O sugar its a drag
That road it twists
That road is crossed
It’s down that road
A lot of little girls go lost
Sugar sugar sugar
Keep on driving on
Until the City of right
Becomes the City of wrong
That stretch is long
You’ll slip and slide
That stretch will find you
Gagged and tiedThe hunter lies
In a lowly ditch
His eyes they sting
And his fingers twitch
You’ll be his queen for the night
But in the morning you’ll wake
With the Lords and high ladies
Of the bottom of the lake
Sugar sugar sugar
That man is wild
And sugar, you know
That you’re merely a child
He will laugh
And hang your sheets to see
The tokens of your virginitySugar sugar sugar
Honey you’re so sweet
And beside you baby
Nothing can compete
Sugar sugar sugar
Honey you’re so sweet
But beside you baby
A bad man sleepsYou better pray baby
Pray baby, pray baby
You better pray
You better pray, baby
Pray, baby, pray baby
You better pray babySugar sugar sugar
That man is bad
And that’s the bottom baby
Coming right up ahead
You can smell his fear
You can smell his love
As he wipes his mouth
On your alter cloth
Sugar sugar sugar
Try to understand
I’m an angel of God
I’m your guardian
He smells your innocence
And like a dog he comes
And like all the dogs he is
I shut him down
Sugar sugar sugar
I can’t explain
Must I kill that cocksucker
EverydayYou better pray baby, pray baby, pray baby
You better pray your daddy he ain’t far away
You better pray baby pray baby pray baby
You better pray your daddy’s come to take you away
You better pray baby, pray baby, pray baby
You better pray o tender prey baby tender prey
You better pray tender prey baby tender preyOne morn I awakened
A new sun was shining
The sky was a Kingdom
All covered in blood
The moon and the stars
Were the troops that lay conquered
Like fruit left to wither
Poor spiritual foodAnd the spears of the bright sun
All brave with its conquest
Did hover unearthly
In banners of fire
I knelt in the garden
Awash with the dawning
And a voice came so brightly
I covered my eyesThank you for giving
This bright new morning
So steeped seemed the evening
In darkness and blood
There’ll be no sadness
There’ll be no sorrow
There’ll be no road too narrow
There’ll be a new day
And it’s today
For usFoi na cruz, foi na cruz
Que um dia
Meus pecados castigados em Jesus
Foi na cruz
Que um dia
Foi na cruzLove comes a-knocking
Comes a-knocking upon our door
But you, you and me, love
We don’t live there any moreFoi na cruz, foi na cruz
Que um dia
Meus pecados castigados em Jesus
Foi na cruz
Que um dia
Foi na cruzA little sleep, a little slumber
A little folding of the hands to sleep
A little love, a little hate, babe
A little trickery and deceitFoi na cruz, foi na cruz
Que um dia
Meus pecados castigados em Jesus
Foi na cruz
Que um dia
Foi na cruzDream on ‘till you can dream no more
For all our grand plans, babe
Will be dreams forever moreFoi na cruz, foi na cruz
Que um dia
Meus pecados castigados em Jesus
Foi na cruz
Que um dia
Foi na cruzOne more man gone
One more man gone
One more man is goneThe good son walks into the field
He is a tiller, he has a tiller’s hands
But down in his heart now
He lays down queer plans
Against his brother and against his family
Yet he worships his brother
And he worships his mother
But it’s his father, he says, is an unfair man
The good son
The good son
The good sonThe good son has sat and often wept
Beneath a malign star by which he’s kept
And the night-time in which he’s wrapped
Speaks of good and speaks of evil
And he calls to his mother
And he calls to his father
But they are deaf in the shadows
Of his brother’s truancy
The good son
The good son
The good son
The good son
And he curses his mother
And he curses his father
And he curses his virtue like an unclean thing
The good son
The good son
The good sonOne more man gone
One more man gone
One more man
One more man gone
One more man gone
One more man
One more man gone
One more man gone
One more manSorrow’s child sits by the river
Sorrow’s child hears not the water
Sorrow’s child sits by the river
Sorrow’s child hears not the water
And just when it seems as though
You’ve got strength enough to stand
Sorrow’s child all weak and strange
Stands waiting at your handSorrow’s child steps in the water
Sorrow’s child you follow after
Sorrow’s child wades in deeper
Sorrow’s child invites you under
And just when you thought as though
All you tears were wept and done
Sorrow’s child grieves not what has passed
But all the past still yet to comeSorrow’s child sits by the water
Sorrow’s child your arms enfold her
Sorrow’s child you’re loathe to befriend her
Sorrow’s child but in sorrow surrender
And just when it seems as though
All your tears were at an end
Sorrow’s child lifts up her hand
And she brings it down againGo son, go down to the water
And see the women weeping there
Then go up into the mountains
The men, they are weeping too
Father, why are all the women weeping?
They are weeping for their men
Then why are all the men there weeping?
They are weeping back at themThis is a weeping song
A song in which to weep
While all the men and women sleep
This is a weeping song
But I won’t be weeping longFather, why are all the children weeping?
They are merely crying son
O, are they merely crying, father?
Yes, true weeping is yet to comeThis is a weeping song
A song in which to weep
While all the little children sleep
This is a weeping song
But I won’t be weeping longO father, tell me, are you weeping?
Your face seems wet to touch
O then I’m so sorry, father
I never thought I hurt you so muchThis is a weeping song
A song in which to weep
While we rock ourselves to sleep
This is a weeping song
But I won’t be weeping long
No, I won’t be weeping long
No, I won’t be weeping long
No, I won’t be weeping longCome sail your ships around me
And burn your bridges down
We make a little history, baby
Every time you come aroundCome loose your dogs upon me
And let your hair hang down
You are a little mystery to me
Every time you come aroundWe talk about it all night long
We define our moral ground
But when I crawl into your arms
Everything comes tumbling downCome sail your ships around me
And burn your bridges down
We make a little history, baby
Every time you come aroundYour face has fallen sad now
For you know the time is nigh
When I must remove your wings
And you, you must try to flyCome sail your ships around me
And burn your bridges down
We make a little history, baby
Every time you come aroundCome loose your dogs upon me
And let your hair hang down
You are a little mystery to me
Every time you come aroundI set out on Monday
The night was cold and vast
Any my brother slept
And though I left quite quietly
My father raged and raged
And my mother weptNow, my life was like a river
All sucked into the ground
And then the hammer came down
Lord, the hammer came downMany miles did I roam
Through the ice and through the snow
My horse died on the seventh dayI stumbled into a city
Where the people tried to kill me
And I ran in shame
Then I came upon a river
And layed my saddle down
And then the hammer came down
Lord, the hammer came down
It knocked me to the ground
And I said, “Please, please
Take me back to my home town”
Lord, the hammer came downNow I’ve been made weak by visions
Many visions did I see
All through the nightOn the seventh hour an angel came
With many snakes in all his hands
And I fled in frightI pushed off into the river
And the water came around
And then the hammer came down
Lord, the hammer came down
And it did not make a sound
And I said, “Please, please
Take me back to my home ground”
Lord, the hammer came downI’ve seen your fairground hair, your seaside eyes
Your vampire tooth, your little truth
Your tiny liesI know your trembling hand, your guilty prize
Your sleeping limbs, your foreign hymns
Your midnight criesSo dry your eyes
And turn your head away
Now there’s nothing more to say
Now you’re gone awayI know your trail of tears, your slip of hand
Your monkey paw, your monkey claw
And your monkey handI’ve seen your trick of blood, your trap of fire
Your ancient wound, your scarlet moon
And your jailhouse smileSo dry your eyes
And turn your head away
Now there’s nothing more to say
Now you’re gone awayI’ll miss your urchin smile, your orphan tears
Your shining prize, your tiny cries
Your little fears
I’ll miss your fairground hair,your seaside eyes
Your vampire tooth, your little truth
Your tiny liesSo dry your eyes
And turn your head away
Now there’s nothing more to say
Now you’re gone awayYeah, yeah
Well, well
I took a walk down to the port
Where strangers meet and do consort
All blinkered with desireAnd a winter fog moved thickly on
A winter fog moved thickly on
A winter fog moved thickly onNow, who will be the witness
When the fog’s too think to seeAnd I saw a friend beside a wall
Her hands were raised in supplication
And her face I could not see at all
And I raised my hands in rage
And brought them down again
And we entered through the eastern door
And I entered through the eastern door
And she entered through the eastern doorNow, who will be the witness
When you’re all to blind to see
O yes, yes, yesAnd time gets somewhat muddled here
But no matter, no matter
Here come the events all tumbling down
Now, beyond the wall was a great garden
Into which we passed
Me and my friend
And the place was all overgrown with weeds
And behold from its centre there rose a great fountain
The fountain with the healing waters
Yes, the fountain with the healing waters
And we knelt down by the rim
And I dipped my hand in
And she dipped her hand in too
And I said “Are you healed?’
And she said “Well are you healed?”
And I said “Yes, I’m healed”
And she said “Well, yes I’m healed then too”
And I said “Babe, you are a liar”
“Babe, you are a liar”
“Babe, you are a liar, too”
Now, who will be the witness
When you’re all too healed to see?And I kissed her once, I kissed her twice
And made my way to leave her
And she raised her hand up to her face
And brought it down again
I said “That gesture, it will haunt me”
“That gesture it will haunt me”
And I left there by the eastern door
She left there by the western doorNow, who will be the witness there
When you’re blind and you can’t see
Who will be the witness there
When you’re all so clean and you cannot see
Who will be the witness there
When your friends are everywhere
Who will be the witness there
And your enemies have ceased to careLast night I lay trembling
The moon it was low
It was the end of love
Of misery and woeThen suddenly above me
Her face buried in light
Came a vision of beauty
All covered in whiteNow the bell-tower is ringing
And the night has stole past
O Lucy, can you hear me?
Wherever you restI’ll love her forever
I’ll love her for all time
I’ll love her till the stars
Fall down from the skyNow the bell-tower is ringing
And I shake on the floor
O Lucy, can you hear me?
When I call and callNow the bell-tower is ringing
And the moon it is high
O Lucy, can you hear me
When I cry and cry and cryI went out walking the other day
The wind hung wet around my neck
My head it rung with screams and groans
From the night I spent amongst her bones
I past beside the mission house
Where that mad old buzzard, the reverend,
Shrieked and flapped about life after you’re dead
Well, I thought about my friend, Michel
How they rolled him in linoleum
And shot him in the neck
A bloody halo, like a think-bubble
Circling his head
And I bellowed at the firmament
Looks like the rains are here to stay
And the rain pissed down upon me
And washed me all away
SayingPapa won’t leave you, Henry
Papa won’t leave you, Boy
Papa won’t leave you, Henry
Papa won’t leave you, Boy
Well, the road is long
And the road is hard
And many fall by the side
But Papa won’t leave you, Henry
So there ain’t no need to cryAnd I went on down the road
He went on down the road
And I went on down the road
He went on down the roadWell, the moon it looked exhausted
Like something you should pity
Spent an age-spotted
Above the sizzling wires of the city
Well, it reminded me of her face
Her bleached and hungry eyes
Her hair was like a curtain
Falling open with the laughter
And closing with the lies
But the ghost of her still lingers on
Though she’s passed through me
And is gone
The slum dogs, they are barking
And the rain children on the streets
And the tears that we will weep today
Will all be washed away
By the tears that we will weep again tomorrowPapa won’t leave you, Henry
Papa won’t leave you, Boy
Papa won’t leave you, Henry
Papa won’t leave you, Boy
For the road is long
And the road is hard
And many fall by the side
But Papa won’t leave you, Henry
So there ain’t no need to cryAnd I went on down the road
He went on down the road
And I went on down the road
He went on down the roadAnd I came upon a little house
A little house upon a hill
And I entered through, the curtain hissed
Into the house with its blood-red bowels
Where wet-lipped women with greasy fists
Crawled the ceilings and the walls
They filled me full of drink
And led me round the rooms
Naked and cold and grinning
Until everything went black
And I came down spinning
I awoke so drunk and full of rage
That I could hardly speak
A fag in a whale-bone corset
Draping his dick across my cheek
And its into the shame
And its into the guilt
And its into the fucking fray
And the walls ran red around me
A warm arterial spray
SayingPapa won’t leave you, Henry
Papa won’t leave you, Boy
Papa won’t leave you, Henry
Papa won’t leave you, Boy
Well, the night is dark
And the night is deep
And its jaws are open wide
But Papa won’t leave you, Henry
So there ain’t no need to cryAnd I went on down the road
He went on down the road
And I went on down the road
He went on down the roadIt’s the rainy season where I’m living
Death comes leaping out of every doorway
Wasting you for your money, for your clothes
And for your nothing
Entire towns being washed away
Favelas exploding on inflammable spillways
Lynch-mobs, death squads, babies being born without brains
The mad heat and the relentless rains
And if you stick your arm into that hole
It comes out sheared off to the bone
And with her kisses bubbling on my lips
I swiped the rain and nearly missed
And I went on down the road
He went on down the road
SingingPapa won’t leave you, Henry
Papa won’t leave you, Boy
Papa won’t leave you, Henry
Papa won’t leave you, Boy
Well, the road is long
And the road is hard
And many fall by the side
But Papa won’t leave you, Henry
So there ain’t no need to cryAnd I went on down the road
He went on down the road
And I went on down the road
He went on down the roadBent beneath my heavy load
Under his heavy load
Yeah, I went on down the road
Yeah, he went on down the roadWoah, woah
Woah, woah
Woah, woah
Woah, woah
And I went on down that roadI had a dream
I had a dream
I had a dream, JoeI had a dream, Joe
You were standing in the middle of an open road
I had a dream, Joe
Your hands were raised up to the sky
And your mouth was covered in foam
I had a dream, Joe
A shadowy Jesus flitted from tree to tree
I had a dream, Joe
And a society of whores stuck needles in an image of me
I had a dream, Joe
It was Autumn time and thick fell the leaves
And in that dream, Joe
A pimp in a seersucker suit sucked a toothpick
And pointed his finger at meI had a dream
I had a dream
I had a dream, JoeI opened my eyes, Joe
The night had been a giant, dribbling and pacing the boards
I opened my eyes, Joe
All your letters and cards stacked up against the door
I opened my eyes, Joe
The morning light came slowly tumbling through the crack
In the window, Joe
And I thought of you and I felt like I was lugging
A body on my backI had a dream
I had a dream
I had a dream, JoeWhere did you go, Joe?
On that endless, senseless, demented drift
Where did you go, Joe?
Into the woods, into the trees, where did you move and shift
Where did you go, Joe?
All dressed up in your ridiculous seersucker suit
Where did you go, Joe?
With that strew of wreckage
Forever at the heal of your bootI had a dream
I had a dream
I had a dream, Joe
I had a dream
I had a dream
I had a dream, JoeAll the towers of ivory are crumbling
And the swallows have sharpened their beaks
This is the time of our great undoing
This is the time that I’ll come running
Straight to you
For I am captured
Straight to you
For I am captured
One more timeThe light in our window is fading
The candle gutters on the ledge
Well now sorrow, it comes a-stealing
And I’ll cry, girl, but I’ll come a-running
Straight to you
For I am captured
Once againGone are the days of rainbows
Gone are the nights of swinging from the stars
For the sea will swallow up the mountains
And the sky will throw thunder-bolts and sparks
Straight at you
But I’ll come a-running
Straight to you
But I’ll come a-running
One more timeHeaven has denied us its kingdom
The saints are drunk and howling at the moon
The chariots of angels are colliding
Well, I’ll run, babe, but I’ll come running
Straight to you
For I am captured
Straight to you
For I am captured
One more timeBrother, my cup is empty
And I haven’t got a penny
For to buy no more whiskey
I have to go homeChristina the Astonishing
Lived a long long time ago
She was stricken with a seizure
At the age of twenty-two
They took her body in a coffin
To a tiny church in Liege
Where she sprang up from the coffin
Just after the Agnus Dei
She soared up to the rafters
Perched on a beam up there
Cried, “The stink of human sin
Is more that i can bear”Christina the Astonishing
Was the most astonishing of all
She prayed balanced on a hurdle
Or curled up into a ball
She fled to remote places
Climbed towers and trees and walls
To escape the stench of human corruption
Into an oven she did crawlO Christina the Astonishing
Behaved in a terrifying way
She would run wildly through the streets
Jump in the Meusse and swim away
O Christina the Astonishing
Behaved in a terrifying manner
Died at the age of seventy-four
In the convent of St AnnaWhen I first came to town
All the people gathered round
They bought me drinks
Lord, how they quickly changed their tuneWhen I first came to town
People took me round from end to end
Like someone make take round a friend
O how quickly they changed their tuneSuspicion and dark murmurs surround me
Everywhere I go they confound me
As though the blood on my hands
Is there for every citizen to seeO sweet Jesus
There is no turning back
There is always one more town
A little further down the trackAnd from my window, across the tracks
I watch the juicers burn their fires
And in that light
Their faces leer at me
How I wish they’d just let me beWhen I first came to town
Their favours were for free
Now even the doors of the whores of this town
Are closed to meI search the mirror
And I try to see
Why the people of this town
Have washed their hands of meO sweet Jesus
There is no turning back
There is always one more town
A little further down the trackO Lord, every god-damn turn I take
I fear the noose, I fear the stake
For there is no bone
They did not break
In all the towns I’ve been beforeWell those that sin against me are snuffed out
I know from every day that I live
God-damn the day that I was born
The night that forced me from the womb
And god-damn this town
For I am leaving now
But one day I will return
And the people of this town will surely see
Just how quickly the tables turnO sweet Jesus
This really is the end
There is always one more town
A little further round the bendWell the night was deep and the night was dark
And I was at the old dance-hall on the edge of town
Some big ceremony was going down
Dancers writhed and squirmed and then,
Came apart and then writhed again
Like squirming flies on a pin
In the heat and in the din
Yes, in the heat and in the din
I fell to thinking about the brand new wife of mad John FinnWell, midnite came and a clock did strike
And in she came, did John Finn’s wife
With legs like scissors and butcher’s knives
A tattooed breast and flaming eyes
And a crimson carnation in her teeth
Carving her way through the dance floor
And I’m standing over by the bandstand
Every eye gaping on John Finn’s wife
Yeah, every eye gaping on John Finn’s wifeNow John Finn’s wife was something of a mystery
In a town where to share a sworn secret was a solemn duty
I had brass knuckles and a bolo knife
Over near the bandstand with John Finn’s wife
She got perfumed breasts and raven hair
Sprinkled with wedding confettis
And a gang of garrotters were all giving me stares
Armed, as they were, with machetes
And the night through the window was full of lights
Winking and a-watching at John Finn’s wife
Winking and a-watching at John Finn’s wifeNext came the cops, all out on the town
But it don’t look like no trouble there
As they head for the bar in their lumpy suits
And I slip my hand between the thighs of John Finn’s wife
And they seemed to yawn awake, her thighs
It was a warm and very ferocious night
The moon was full of blood and light
And my eyes grew small and my eyes grew tight
As I plotted in the ear of John Finn’s wifeEnter John Finn in his shrunken suit
With his quick black eyes and black cheroot
With his filed-down teeth and a hobnail boot
And his fists full of pistols in his pockets
Aiming at me and aiming at his wife
The band fall silent fearing for their lives
And with fear in my guts like tangled twine
Cause all i got is brass knuckles and a bolo knife
And mad John Finn’s wife is all
And the three of us walk out of the hallNow the night bore down upon us all
You could hear the crickets in the thickets call
And the guns did flare and the guns did bawl
And I planted my bolo knife in the neck
Of mad John Finn. I took his wretched life
Now I’m over near the bandstand
Every hand moving on John Finn’s wife
Every hand moving on John Finn’s wifeAnd John Finn’s wife
Took all the flowers down
From her hair
And threw them on the ground
And the flies did hum
And the flies did buzz around
Poor John Finn
Lying dead upon the ground
Lying dead upon the groundIt was the dirty end of winter
Along the loom of the land
When I walked with sweet Sally
Hand upon handAnd the wind it bit bitter
For a boy of no means
With no shoes on his feet
And a knife in his jeansAlong the loom of the land
The mission bells peeled
From the tower of Saint Mary’s
Down to Reprobate FieldsAnd I saw that the world
Was all blessed and bright
And Sally breathed softly
In the majestic nightO baby please don’t cry
And try to keep
Your little head upon my shoulder
Now go to sleepThe elms and the poplars
Were turning their backs
Past the rumbling station
We followed the tracksWe found an untrodden path
And followed it down
The moon in the sky
Like a dislodged crownMy hands they burned
In the folds of her coat
Breathing milky white air
From deep in her throatO baby please don’t cry
And try to keep
Your little head upon my shoulder
Now go to sleepI told Sally in whispers
I’ll never bring you harm
Her breast it was small
And warm in my palmI told her the moon
Was a magical thing
That it shone gold in the winter
And silver in the springAnd we walked and we walked
Across the endless sands
Just me and my Sally
Along the loom of the landO baby please don’t cry
And try to keep
Your little head upon my shoulder
Now go to sleepI got a woman
She rules my house with an iron fist
I got a woman
She rules my house with an iron fist
She screams out Jack the Ripper
Every time I try to give that girl a kissI got a woman
She strikes me down with a fist of lead
I got a woman
She strikes me down with a hand of lead
We bed in a bucket of butcher’s knives
I awake with a hatchet hanging over my headWell you know the story of the viper
It’s long and lean with a poison tooth
Yeah, you know the story of the viper
It’s long and lean with a poison tooth
Well they’re hissing under the floorboards
Hanging down in bunches from my roofI got a woman
She just hollers what she wants from where she is
I got a woman
She just hollers what she wants from where she’s at
She screams out Jack the Ripper
Every time I try to give that girl a kissI found her on a night of fire and noise
Wild bells rang in a wild sky
I knew from that moment on
I’d love her till the day that I died
And I kissed away a thousand tears
My lady of the Various Sorrows
Some begged, some borrowed, some stolen
Some kept safe for tomorrow
On an endless night, silver star spangled
The bells from the chapel went jingle-jangleDo you love me?
She was given to me to put things right
And I stacked all my accomplishments beside her
Still I seemed so obsolete and small
I found God and all His devils inside her
In my bed she cast the blizzard out
A mock sun blazed upon her head
So completely filled with light she was
Her shadow fanged and hairy and mad
Our love-lines grew hopelessly tangled
And the bells from the chapel went jingle-jangleDo you love me?
She had a heartful of love and devotion
She had a mindful of tyranny and terror
Well, I try, I do, I really try
But I just err, baby, I do, I error
So come find me, my darling one
I’m down to the grounds, the very dregs
Ah, here she comes, blocking the sun
Blood running down the inside of her legs
The moon in the sky is battered and mangled
And the bells from the chapel go jingle-jangleDo you love me?
All things move toward their end
I knew before I met her that I would lose her
I swear I made every effort to be good to her
I swear I made every effort not to abuse her
Crazy bracelets on her wrists and her ankles
And the bells from the chapel went jingle-jangleI’ve searched the holy books
Tried to unravel the mystery of Jesus Christ, the saviour
I’ve read the poets and the analysts
Searched through the books on human behaviour
I travelled the whole world around
For an answer that refused to be found
I don’t know why and I don’t know how
But she’s nobody’s baby nowI loved her then and I guess I love her still
Hers is the face I see when a certain mood moves in
She lives in my blood and skin
Her wild feral stare, her dark hair
Her winter lips as cold as stone
Yeah, I was her man
But there are some things even love won’t allow
I held her hand but I don’t hold it now
I don’t know why and I don’t know how
But she’s nobody’s baby nowThis is her dress that I loved best
With the blue quilted violets across the breast
And these are my many letters
Torn to pieces by her long-fingered hand
I was her cruel-hearted man
And though I’ve tried to lay her ghost down
She’s moving through me, even now
I don’t know why and I don’t know how
But she’s nobody’s baby nowThere’s a devil waiting outside your door
(How much longer?)
Bucking and braying and pawing the floor
Well, he’s howling with pain and crawling up the walls
There’s a devil waiting outside your door
He’s weak with evil and broken by the world
He’s shouting your name and asking for more
There’s a devil waiting outside your doorLoverman! Since the world began
Forever, Amen till the end of time
Take off that dress I’m coming down
I’m your loverman
Cause I am what I am what I am what I amL is for LOVE, baby
O is for ONLY you that I do
V is for loving VIRTUALLY everything that you are
E is for loving almost EVERYTHING that you do
R is for RAPE me
M is for MURDER me
A is for ANSWERING all of my prayers
N is for KNOWING your loverman’s going to be the answer to all of yoursI’ll be your Loverman! Till the bitter end
While empires burn down
Forever and ever and ever and ever
Amen I’m your Loverman
So help me, baby So help me
Cause I am what I am what I am what I am
I’m your Loverman!There’s a devil crawling along your floor
With a trembling heart, he’s coming through your door
With his straining sex in his jumping paw
There’s a devil crawling along your floor
And he’s old and he’s stupid and he’s hungry and he’s sore
And he’s blind and he’s lame and he’s dirty and he’s poor
There’s a devil crawling along your floorLoverman! Here I stand
Forever, Amen
Cause I am what I am what I am what I am
Forgive me, baby my hands are tied
And I got no choice
No, I got no choice at allI’ll say it again
L is for LOVE, baby
O is for O yes I do
V is for loving VIRTUE, so I ain’t gonna hurt you
E is for EVEN if you want me to
R is for RENDER unto me, baby
M is for that which is MINE
A is for ANY old how, darling
N is for ANY old timeI’ll be your Loverman! I got a masterplan
To take off your dress
And be your man
Seize the throne
Seize the mantle
Seize the crown
Cause I am what I am what I am what I am
I’m your Loverman!There’s a devil lying by your side
You might think he’s asleep but take a look at his eyes
He wants you, darling, to be his bride
There’s a devil lying by your sideLoverman! Loverman!Jangling Jack
Goes Yackety Yack
Visits the home of the brave
Hails a fat yellow cab
Jack wanna celebrate
Jack wanna big drink
Driver drops him at a bar
Called the Rinky Dink
Jack pushes through the door
And crosses the floor
Tips his hat to a man
Grinning in the corner
Going Do da do Do da doSays, I’m Jangling Jack
I go Do do do
I wanna Rinky Dink Special
I wanna little umbrella too
Jack flops on his stool
Sees the grinning man laugh
So Jack laughs back
Jack raises his glass
Says, God bless this country
And everything in it
The losers and the winners
The good guys and the sinners
The grinning man says, Buddy
It’s all Yackety Yack
Whips out a little black pistol
Shoots a bullet in JackJangling Jack
Do Da Do Do Da Do
Jangling Jack
How do you Do Da DoJangling Jack flies off his seat
Crashes through the floor
Lands in a heap on the street
Hears his mother’s voice
Going, Do do do
Jack is shouting
Mummy is that you?
He sees the berserk city
Sees the dead stacked in piles
Sees the screaming crowd
Screams, Where in hell am I?
Going Do da do Going Do da doWell Jangling Jack
As a matter of fact
Crawls though the crowd
Back into the bar
Jack crawls to his stool
Jack drags himself up
Falls back down on his arse
In a puddle of blood
Going Goodbye Mummy
Goodbye Goodbye
Jack doubles over
And he vomits and dies
Going Do da do Going Do do doTake a little walk to the edge of town
Go across the tracks
Where the viaduct looms,
Like a bird of doom
As it shifts and cracks
Where secrets lie in the border fires, in the humming wires
Hey man, you know you’re never coming back
Past this square, past the bridge, past the mills, past the stacks
On a gathering storm comes a tall handsome man
In a dusty black coat with a red right handHe’ll wrap you in his arms, tell you that you’ve been a good boy
He’ll rekindle all those dreams it took you a lifetime to destroy
He’ll reach deep into the hole, heal your shrinking soul
Hey buddy, you know you’re never ever coming back
He’s a ghost, he’s a god, he’s a man, he’s a guru
They’re whispering his name across this disappearing land
But hidden in his coat is a red right handYou ain’t got no money?
He’ll get you some
You ain’t got no car?
He’ll get you one
You ain’t got no self-respect, you feel like an insect
Well don’t you worry buddy, cause here he comes
Through the ghetto and the barrio and the Bowery and the slum
A shadow is cast wherever he stands
Stacks of green paper in his red right handYou’ll see him in your nightmares, you’ll see him in your dreams
He’ll appear out of nowhere but he ain’t what he seems
You’ll see him in your head, on the TV screen
And hey buddy, I’m warning you to turn it off
He’s a ghost, he’s a god, he’s a man, he’s a guru
You’re one microscopic cog in his catastrophic plan
Designed and directed by his red right handDespair and Deception, Love’s ugly little twins
Came a-knocking on my door, I let them in
Darling, you’re the punishment for all my former sinsI let love inThe door it opened just a crack, but Love was shrewd and bold
My life flashed before my eyes, it was a horror to behold
A life-sentence sweeping confetti from the floor of a concrete holeI let love inWell I’ve been bound and gagged and I’ve been terrorized
And I’ve been castrated and I’ve been lobotomized
But never has my tormentor come in such a cunning disguiseI let love inO Lord, tell me what I done
Please don’t leave me here on my own
Where are my friends?
My friends are goneSo if you’re sitting all alone and hear a-knocking at your door
And the air of promises, well buddy, you’ve been warned
Far worse to be Love’s lover than the lover that Love has scornedI let love inI know you’ve heard it all before
But I’m sorry for this three year war
For the setting up of camps and wire and trenches
I’m sorry for the other night
I know sorry it don’t make it right
I’m sorry for things I can’t even mentionI’m sorry sorry sorry, sorry
I’m sitting feeling sorry in the Thirsty Dog
I’m sorry sorry sorry, sorry
I’m feeling very sorry in the Thirsty DogYou keep nailing me back into my box
I’m sorry I keep popping back up
With my crazy mouth and jangling jester’s cap
I’m sorry I ever wrote that book
I’m sorry about the way I look
But there ain’t a lot that I can do about thatI’m sorry about the hospital
Some things are unforgivable
Some things simply cannot be forgiven
I was not equipped to know how to care
And on the occasions I came up for air
I saw my life and wondered what the hell I had been livingI’m sorry about all your friends
I hope they’ll speak to me again
I said before I’d pay for all the damage
I’m sorry it’s just rotten luck
I’m sorry I’ve forgotten how to fuck
It’s just that I think my heart and soul are kind of famishedForgive me, darling but don’t worry
Love is always having to say you’re sorry
And I am, from my head down to my shoes
I’m sorry that I’m always pissed
I’m sorry that I exist
And when I look into your eyes
I can see you’re sorry tooI’m sorry sorry sorry, sorry
I’m sitting feeling sorry in the Thirsty Dog
I’m sorry sorry sorry, sorry
I’m feeling very sorry in the Thirsty DogOnce there came a storm in the form of a girl
It blew to pieces my snug little world
And sometimes I swear I can still hear her howl
Down through the wreckage and the ruinsAnd it ain’t gonna rain anymore
Now my baby’s gone
And it ain’t gonna rain anymore
Now my baby’s goneNow the storm has passed over me
I’m left to drift on a dead calm sea
And watch her forever through the cracks in the beams
Nailed across the doorways of the bedrooms of my dreamsNow I have no one to hold
Now I am all alone again
It ain’t too hot and it ain’t too cold
And there is no sign of rainAnd it ain’t gonna rain anymore
Now my baby’s gone, yeah
And it ain’t gonna rain anymore
Now my baby’s gone, yeah
And I’m on my ownShe ain’t coming back no more
She ain’t coming back no more
She ain’t coming back no more
Say what you will, I don’t careThey’re gonna lay me low (Lay me low)
They’re gonna sink me in the snow
They’re gonna throw back their heads and crow
When I goThey’re gonna jump and shout (Lay me low)
They’re gonna wave their arms about
All the stories will come out
When I goAll the stars will glow bright (Lay me low)
My friends will give up the fight
They’ll see my work in a different light
When I goThey’ll try telephoning my mother (Lay me low)
They’ll end up getting my brother
Who’ll spill the story on somelong-gone lover
That I hardly knowHats off to the man
On top of the world
Come crawl up here, baby
And I’ll show you how it works
If you wanna be my friend
And you wanna repent
And you want it all to end
And you wanna know when
Then take a bow
Do it now
Do it any old how
Make a stand
Take my hand
And blow it all to hellThey’ll inform the police chief (Lay me low)
Who will breathe a sigh of relief
He’ll say I was a malanderer, a badlander, and a thief
When I goThey will interview my teachers (Lay me low)
Who’ll say I was one of God’s sorrier creatures
There’ll be informative six-page features
When I goThey’ll bang a big old gong (Lay me low)
The motorcade will be ten miles long
The world will join together for a farewell song
When they put me down belowThey’ll sound a flugelhorn (Lay me low)
The sea will rage, the sky will storm
All man and beast will mourn
When I goHats off to the man
On top of the world
Crawl over here, darling
And we can watch this damn thing turn
If you wanna be my friend
And you wanna repent
And you want it all to end
And you wanna know when
Then do it now
Don’t care how Do it any old how
Take my hand Make a stand
And blow it all to hellOnward! And Onward! And Onward I go
Where no man before could be bothered to go
Till the soles of my shoes are shot full of holes
And it’s all downhill with a bullet
This ramblin’ and rovin’ has taken it’s course
I’m grazing with the dinosaurs and the dear old horses
And the city streets crack and a great hole forces
Me down with my soapbox, my pulpit
The theatre ceiling is silver star-spangled
And the coins in my pocket go jingle-jangleDo you love me?
There’s a man in the theatre with girlish eyes
Who’s holding my childhood to ransom
On the screen there’s a death,
There’s a rustle of cloth
And a sickly voice calling me handsome
There’s a man in the theatre with sly girlish eyes
On the screen there’s an ape, a gorilla
There’s a groan, there’s a cough, there’s a rustle of cloth
And a voice that stinks of death and vanilla
This is a secret, mauled and mangled
And the coins in my pocket go jingle-jangleDo you love me?
The walls of the ceiling are painted in blood
The lights go down, the red curtains come apart
The room is full of smoke and dialogue I know by heart
And the coins in my pocket go jingle-jangle
As the great screen cracked and popped
The clock of my boyhood was wound down and stopped
And my handsome little body oddly propped
And my trousers right down to my ankles
Yes, it’s on onward! And upward!
And I’m off to find love
Do you love me? If you do, I’m thankfulDo you love me?
This city is an ogre squatting by the river
It gives life but it takes it away, my youth
There comes a time when you just cannot deliver
This is a fact. This is a stone cold truth.
Do you love me? I love you, handsome
But do you love me?
Yes, I love you, you are handsome
Amongst the cogs and the wires, my youth
Vanilla breath and handsome apes with girlish eyes
Dreams that roam between truth and untruth
Memories that become monstrous lies
So onward! And Onward! And Onward I go!
Onward! And Upward! And I’m off to find love
With blue-black bracelets on my wrists and ankles
And the coins in my pocket go jingle-jangleHave mercy on me, sir
Allow me to impose on you
I have no place to stay
And my bones are cold right through
I will tell you a story
Of a man and his family
And I swear that it is trueTen years ago I met a girl named Joy
She was a sweet and happy thing
Her eyes were bright blue jewels
And we were married in the spring
I had no idea what happiness a little love could bring
Or what life had in store
But all things move toward their end
All things move toward their end
On that you can be sureLa la la la la la la la la la
La la la la la la la la la laThen one morning I awoke to find her weeping
And for many days to follow
She grew so sad and lonely
Became Joy in name only
Within her breast there launched an unnamed sorrow
And a dark and grim force set sail
Farewell happy fields
Where joy forever dwells
Hail horrors hailWas it an act of contrition or some awful premonition
As if she saw into the heart of her final blood-soaked night
Those lunatic eyes, that hungry kitchen knife
Ah, I see, sir, that I have your attention!
Well, could it be?
How often I’ve asked that question
Well, then in quick succession
We had babies, one, two, threeWe called them Hilda, Hattie and Holly
They were their mother’s children
Their eyes were bright blue jewels
And they were quiet as a mouse
There was no laughter in the house
No, not from Hilda, Hattie or Holly
“No wonder”, people said, “poor mother Joy’s so melancholy”
Well, one night there came a visitor to our little homeI was visiting a sick friend
I was a doctor then
Joy and the girls were on their ownLa la la la la la la la la la
La la la la la la la la la laJoy had been bound with electrical tape
In her mouth a gag
She’d been stabbed repeatedly
And stuffed into a sleeping bag
In their very cots my girls were robbed of their lives
Method of murder much the same as my wife’s
Method of murder much the same as my wife’s
It was midnight when I arrived home
Said to the police on the telephone
Someone’s taken four innocent livesThey never caught the man
He’s still on the loose
It seems he has done many many more
Quotes John Milton on the walls in the victim’s blood
The police are investigating at tremendous cost
In my house he wrote, “red right hand”
That, I’m told is from Paradise Lost
The wind round here gets wicked cold
But my story is nearly told
I fear the morning will bring quite a frostAnd so I’ve left my home
I drift from land to land
I am upon your step and you are a family man
Outside the vultures wheel
The wolves howl, the serpents hiss
And to extend this small favour, friend
Would be the sum of earthly bliss
Do you reckon me a friend?
The sun to me is dark
And silent as the moon
Do you, sir, have a room?
Are you beckoning me in?
La la la la la la la la la la
La la la la la la la la la la
La la la la la la la la la la
La la la la la la la la la laIt was back in ‘32 when times were hard
He had a Colt .45 and a deck of cards
Stagger LeeHe wore rat-drawn shoes and an old stetson hat
Had a ‘28 Ford, had payments on that
Stagger LeeHis woman threw him out in the ice and snow
And told him, “Never ever come back no more”
Stagger LeeSo he walked through the rain and he walked through the mud
Till he came to a place called The Bucket Of Blood
Stagger LeeHe said, “Mr Motherfucker, you know who I am”
The barkeeper said, “No, and I don’t give a good goddamn”
To Stagger LeeHe said, “Well bartender, it’s plain to see
I’m that bad motherfucker called Stagger Lee”
Mr. Stagger LeeBarkeep said, “Yeah, I’ve heard your name down the way
And I kick motherfucking asses like you every day”
Mr Stagger LeeWell, those were the last words that the barkeep said
‘Cause Stag put four holes in his motherfucking headJust then in came a broad called Nellie Brown
Was known to make more money than any bitch in townShe struts across the bar, hitching up her skirt
Over to Stagger Lee, she starts to flirt
With Stagger LeeShe saw the barkeep, said, “O God, he can’t be dead!”
Stag said, “Well, just count the holes in the motherfucker’s head”She said, “You look like you ain’t scored in quite a time.
Why not come to my pad? It won’t cost you a dime”
Mr. Stagger Lee“But there’s something I have to say before you begin
You’ll have to be gone before my man Billy Dilly comes in,
Stagger Lee”“I’ll stay here till Billy Dilly comes in, till time comes to pass
And furthermore I’ll fuck Billy Dilly in his motherfucking ass”
Said Stagger Lee“I’m a bad motherfucker, don’t you know
And I’ll crawl over fifty good pussies just to get to one fat boy’s asshole”
Said Stagger LeeJust then Billy Dilly rolls in and said, “You must be
That bad motherfucker called Stagger Lee”
Stagger Lee“Yeah, I’m Stagger Lee and you better get down on your knees
And suck my dick, because if you don’t you’re sure to be dead”
Said Stagger LeeBilly Dilly dropped down and slobbered on his head
And Stag filled him full of lead
Oh yeah.Get down, get down, little Henry Lee
And stay all night with me
You won’t find a girl in this damn world
That will compare with me
And the wind did howl and the wind did blow
La la la la la
La la la la lee
A little bird lit down on Henry LeeI can’t get down and I won’t get down
And stay all night with thee
For the girl I have in that merry green land
I love far better than thee
And the wind did howl and the wind did blow
La la la la la
La la la la lee
A little bird lit down on Henry LeeShe leaned herself against a fence
Just for a kiss or two
And with a little pen-knife held in her hand
She plugged him through and through
And the wind did roar and the wind did moan
La la la la la
La la la la lee
A little bird lit down on Henry LeeCome take him by his lilly-white hands
Come take him by his feet
And throw him in this deep deep well
Which is more than one hundred feet
And the wind did howl and the wind did blow
La la la la la
La la la la lee
A little bird lit down on Henry LeeLie there, lie there, little Henry Lee
Till the flesh drops from your bones
For the girl you have in that merry green land
Can wait forever for you to come home
And the wind did howl and the wind did moan
La la la la la
La la la la lee
A little bird lit down on Henry LeeThere she stands, this lovely creature
There she stands, there she stands
With her hair full of ribbons
And green gloves on her handsSo I asked this lovely creature
Yes, I asked. Yes, I asked
Would she walk with me a while
Through this night so fastShe took my hand, this lovely creature
“Yes”, she said, “Yes”, she said
“Yes, I’ll walk with you a while”
It was a joyful man she ledOver hills, this lovely creature
Over mountains, over ranges
By great pyramids and sphinxs
We met drifters and strangersOh the sands, my lovely creature
And the mad, moaning winds
At night the deserts writhed
With diabolical thingsThrough the night, through the night
The wind lashed and it whipped me
When I got home, my lovely creature
She was no longer with meSomewhere she lies, this lovely creature
Beneath the slow drifting sands
With her hair full of ribbons
And green gloves on her handsThey call me The Wild Rose
but my name was Elisa Day
Why they call me it I do not know
For my name was Elisa DayFrom the first day I saw her I knew she was the one
As she stared in my eyes and smiled
For her lips were the colour of the roses
That grew down the river, all bloody and wildWhen he knocked on my door and entered the room
My trembling subsided in his sure embrace
He would be my first man, and with a careful hand
He wiped at the tears that ran down my faceThey call me The Wild Rose
but my name was Elisa Day
Why they call me it I do not know
For my name was Elisa DayOn the second day I brought her a flower
She was more beautiful than any woman I’d seen
I said, “Do you know where the wild roses grow
So sweet and scarlet and free?”On the second day he came with a single red rose
Said: “Will you give me your loss and your sorrow?”
I nodded my head, as I lay on the bed
He said, “If I show you the roses will you follow?”They call me The Wild Rose
but my name was Elisa Day
Why they call me it I do not know
For my name was Elisa DayOn the third day he took me to the river
He showed me the roses and we kissed
And the last thing I heard was a muttered word
As he stood smiling above me with a rock in his fistOn the last day I took her where the wild roses grow
And she lay on the bank, the wind light as a thief
As I kissed her goodbye, I said, “All beauty must die”
And lent down and planted a rose between her teethThey call me The Wild Rose
but my name was Elisa Day
Why they call me it I do not know
For my name was Elisa DayI live in a town called Millhaven
And it’s small and it’s mean and it’s cold
But if you come around just as the sun goes down
You can watch the whole town turn to gold
It’s around about then that I used to go a-roaming
Singing La la la la La la la lie
All God’s children they all gotta dieMy name is Loretta but I prefer Lottie
I’m closing in on my fifteenth year
And if you think you have seen a pair of eyes more green
Then you sure didn’t see them round here
My hair is yellow and I’m always a-combing
La la la la La la la lie
Mama often told me we all have to dieYou must have heard about The Curse Of Millhaven
How last Christmas Bill Blake’s little boy didn’t come home
They found him next week in One Mile Creek
His head bashed in and his pockets full of stones
Well, just imagine the wailing and moaning
La la la la La la la lie
Even little Billy Blake, he had to dieThen Professor O’Rye from Millhaven High
Found nailed to his door, his prize-winning terrier
The next day the old fool brought little Biko to school
And we all had to watch as he buried her
His eulogy to Biko had all the tears a-flowing
La la la la La la la lie
Even God’s little creatures, they have to dieOur little town fell into a state of shock
A lot of people were saying things that made little sense
Then the next thing you know the head of Handyman Joe
Was found in the fountain of the Mayor’s residence
Foul play can really get a small town going
La la la la La la la lie
All God’s children all have to dieThen, in a cruel twist of fate, old Mrs Colgate
Was stabbed but the job was not complete
The last thing she said before the cops pronounced her dead
Was, “My killer is Loretta and she lives across the street!”
Twenty cops burst through my door without even phoning
La la la la La la la lie
The young ones, the old ones, they all gotta dieYes, it is I, Lottie. The curse of Millhaven
I’ve struck horror in the heart of this town
Like my eyes ain’t green and my hair ain’t yellow
It’s more like the other way around
I gotta pretty little mouth underneath all the foaming
La la la la La la la lie
Sooner or later we all gotta dieSince I was no bigger than a weavil they’ve been saying I was evil
That if “bad” was a boot then I’d fit it
That I’m a wicked young lady, but I’ve been trying hard lately
O fuck it! I’m a monster! I admit it!
It makes me so mad my blood really starts a-going
La la la la La la la lie
Mama always told me that we all gotta dieYeah, I drowned the Blakey kid, stabbed Mrs. Colgate, I admit
Did the handyman with his circular saw in his garden shed
But I never crucified little Biko, that was two junior high school psychos
Stinky Bohoon and his friend with the pumpkin-sized head
I’ll sing to the lot, now you got me going
La la la la La la la lie
All God’s children have all gotta dieThere were all of the others, all our sisters and brothers
You assumed were accidents, best forgotten
Recall the children who broke through the ice on Lake Tahoo?
Everyone assumed the “Warning” signs had followed them to the bottom
Well, they’re underneath the house where I do quite a bit of stowing
La la la la La la la lie
Even twenty little children, they had to dieAnd the fire of ‘91 that razed the Bella Vista slum
There was the biggest shit-fight this country’s ever seen
Insurance companies ruined, land lords getting sued
All cause of a wee little girl with a can of gasoline
Those flames really roared when the wind started blowing
La la la la La la la lie
Rich man, poor man, all got to dieWell I confessed to all these crimes and then they put me on trial
I was laughing when they took me away
Off to the asylum in an old black Mariah
It ain’t home, but you know, it’s fucking better than jail
It ain’t such a bad old place to have a home in
La la la la La la la lie
All God’s children they all gotta dieNow I got shrinks that will not rest with their endless Rorschach tests
I keep telling them they’re out to get me
They ask me if I feel remorse and I answer, “Why of course!
There is so much more I could have done if they’d let me!”
So it’s Rorschach and Prozac and everything is groovy
Singing La la la la La la la lie
All God’s children have all gotta die
La la la la La la la lie
I’m happy as a lark and everything is fine
Singing La la la la La la la lie
Yeah, everything is groovy and everything is fine
Singing La la la la La la la lie
All God’s children they all gotta dieThey found Mary Bellows cuffed to the bed
With a rag in her mouth and a bullet in her head
O poor Mary BellowsShe’d grown up hungry, she’d grown up poor
So she left her home in Arkansas
O poor Mary BellowsShe wanted to see the deep blue sea
She drove across Tennessee
O poor Mary BellowsShe met a man along the way
He introduced himself as Richard Slade
O poor Mary BellowsPoor Mary thought that she might die
When she saw the ocean for the first time
O poor Mary BellowsShe checked into a cheap little place
Richard Slade carried in her old suitcase
O poor Mary Bellows“I’m a good girl, sir,” she said to him
I couldn’t possibly permit you in
O poor Mary BellowsSlade tipped his hat and winked his eye
And turned away without goodbye
O poor Mary BellowsShe sat on her bed and thought of home
With the sea breeze whistling all alone
O poor Mary BellowsIn hope and loneliness she crossed the floor
And undid the latch on the front door
O poor Mary BellowsThey found her next day cuffed to the bed
A rag in her mouth and a bullet in her head
O poor Mary BellowsSo mothers keep your girls at home
Don’t let them journey out alone
Tell them this world is full of danger
And to shun the company of strangers
O poor Mary Bellows
O poor Mary BellowsCrow Jane Crow Jane
Crow Jane
Horrors in her head
That her tongue dare not name
Lived all alone by the river
The rolling rivers of pain
Crow Jane Crow Jane
Crow Jane Ah hah huhThere is one shining eye on a hard-hat
Company closed down the mine
Winking on the waters they came
Twenty hard-hats, twenty eyes
In her clapboard shack
Just six foot by five
They killed all her whiskey
Poured their pistols dry
Crow Jane Crow Jane
Crow Jane Ah hah huhSeems you’ve remembered
How to sleep, how to sleep
The house dogs are in your turnips
And your yard dogs are running all over the streets
Crow Jane Crow Jane
Crow Jane Ah hah huh“O Mr. Smith and Mr. Wesson
Why you close up shop so late?”
“Just fitted out a girl who looked like a bird
Measured .32, .44, .38
Asked that girl which road she was taking
Said she was walking the road of hate
But she hopped on a coal-trolley up to New Haven
Population: 48”
Crow Jane Crow Jane
Crow Jane Ah hah huhYour guns are drunk and smoking
They have followed you to the gate
Laughing all the way back from the new town
Population, now, 28
Crow Jane Crow Jane
Crow Jane Ah hah huhI am tall and I am thin
Of an enviable height
And I’ve been known to be quite handsome
From a certain angle and in a certain light
Well I entered into O’Malley’s
Said, “O’Malley I have a thirst”
O’Malley merely smiled at me
Said “You wouldn’t be the first”
I knocked on the bar and pointed
To a bottle on the shelf
And as O’Malley poured me out a drink
I sniffed and crossed myself
My hand decided that the time was nigh
And for a moment it slipped from view
And when it returned, it fairly burned
With confidence anew
Well the thunder from my steely fist
Made all the glasses jangle
When I shot him, I was so handsome
It was the light, it was the angleHuh! Hmmmmm“Neighbours!” I cried, “Friends!” I screamed
I banged my fist upon the bar
“I bear no grudge against you!”
And my dick felt long and hard
“I am the man for which no God waits
For which the whole world yearns
I’m marked by darkness and by blood
And one thousand powder-burns”
Well, you know those fish with the swollen lips
That clean the ocean floor?
When I looked at poor O’Malley’s wife
That is exactly what I saw
I jammed the barrel under her chin
And her face looked raw and vicious
Her head it landed in the sink
With all the dirty dishes
Her little daughter Siobhan
Pulled beers from dusk till dawn
And amongst the townfolk, she was a bit of a joke
But she pulled the best beers in town
I swooped magnificent upon her
As she sat shivering in her grief
Like the Madonna painted on the church-house wall
In whale’s blood and banana leaf
Her throat it crumbled in my fist
And I spun heroically around
To see Caffrey rising from his chair
I shot that mother fucker downMmmmmmmmm Yeah Yeah Yeah“I have no free will,” I sang
As I flew about the murder
Mrs. Richard Holmes, she screamed
You really should have heard her
I sang and I laughed, I howled and I wept
I panted like a pup
I blew a hole in Mrs. Richard Holmes
And her husband he stood up
And he screamed, “You are an evil man”
And I paused a while to wonder
“If I have no free will then how can I
Be morally culpable, I wonder”
I shot Richard Holmes in the stomach
And gingerly he sat down
And he whispered weirdly, “No offense”
And lay upon the ground
“None taken,” I replied to him
With which he gave a little cough
With blazing wings I neatly aimed
And blew his head completely off
I’ve lived in this town for thirty years
And to no-one am I a stranger
And I put new bullets in my gun
Chamber upon chamber
And when I turned my gun on the bird-like Mr. Brookes
I thought of Saint Francis and his sparrows
And as I shot down the youthful Richardson
It was St. Sebastian I thought of, and his arrowsHhhhhhhhhhhh MmmmmmmmmI said, “I want to introduce myself
And I am glad that you all came”
And I leapt upon the bar
And shouted out my name
Well Jerry Bellows, he hugged his stool
Closed his eyes and shrugged and laughed
And with an ashtray as big as a fucking big brick
I split his head in half
His blood spilled across the bar
Like a steaming scarlet brook
And I knelt at it’s edge on the counter
Wiped the tears away and looked
Well, the light in there was blinding
Full of God and ghosts and truth
I smiled at Henry Davenport
Who made an attempt to move
Well, from the position I was standing
The strangest thing I ever saw
The bullet entered through the top of his chest
And blew his bowels out on the floor
Well I floated down the counter
Showing no remorse
I shot a hole in Kathleen Carpenter
Recently divorced
But remorse I felt and remorse I had
It clung to every thing
From the raven’s hair upon my head
To the feathers on my wings
Remorse squeezed my hand in it’s fraudulent claw
With it’s golden hairless chest
And I glided through the bodies
And killed the fat man Vincent West
Who sat quietly in his chair
A man become a child
And I raised the gun up to his head
Executioner-style
He made no attempt to resist
So fat and dull and lazy
“Do you know I lived in your street?” I cried
And he looked at me as though I were crazy
“O”, he said, “I had no idea”
And he grew as quiet as a mouse
And the roar of the pistol when it went off
Near blew the hat right off the houseWell, I caught my eye in the mirror
And gave it a long and loving inspection
“There stands some kind of man”, I roared
And there did, in the reflection
My hair combed back like a raven’s wing
My muscles hard and tight
And curling from the business end of my gun
Was a query-mark of cordite
Well I spun to the left, I spun to the right
And I spun to the left again
“Fear me! Fear me!”
But no one did cause they were deadHuh! HmmmmmmmmAnd then there were the police sirens wailing
And a bull-horn squelched and blared
“Drop your weapons and come out
With your hands held in the air”
Well, I checked the chambers of my gun
Saw I had one final bullet left
My hand, it looked almost human
As I held it to my head
“Drop your weapon and come out!
Keep your hands above your head!”
Well, I had one long hard think about dying
And did exactly what they said
There must have been fifty cops out there
In a circle around O’Malley’s bar
“Don’t shoot”, I cried, “I’m a man unarmed!”
So they put me in their car
And they sped me away from that terrible scene
And I glanced out of the window
Saw O’Malley’s bar, saw the cops and the cars
And started counting on my fingersAaaaaaaaah One Aaaaaaaah Two Aaaaaah Three Aaaah Four
O’Malley’s bar O’Malley’s barWhen you’re sad and when you’re lonely
And you haven’t got a friend
Just remember that death is not the endAnd all that you held sacred
Falls down and does not mend
Just remember that death is not the end
Not the end, not the end
Just remember that death is not the endWhen you’re standing on the crossroads
That you cannot comprehend
Just remember that death is not the endAnd all your dreams have vanished
And you don’t know what’s up the bend
Just remember that death is not the end
Not the end, not the end
Just remember that death is not the endWhen the storm clouds gather round you
And heavy rains descend
Just remember that death is not the endAnd there is no-one there to comfort you
With a helping hand to lend
Just remember that death is not the end
Not the end, not the end
Just remember that death is not the endFor the tree of life is growing
Where the spirit never dies
And the bright light of salvation
Up in dark and empty skies
When the cities are on fire
With the burning flesh of men
Just remember that death is not the endAnd you search in vain to find
Some law-abiding citizen
Just remember that death is not the end
Not the end, not the end
Just remember that death is not the end
Not the end, not the end
Just remember that death is not the endI don’t believe in an interventionist God
But I know, darling, that you do
But if I did I would kneel down and ask Him
Not to intervene when it came to you
Not to touch a hair on your head
To leave you as you are
And if He felt He had to direct you
Then direct you into my armsInto my arms, O Lord
Into my arms, O Lord
Into my arms, O Lord
Into my armsAnd I don’t believe in the existence of angels
But looking at you I wonder if that’s true
But if I did I would summon them together
And ask them to watch over you
To each burn a candle for you
To make bright and clear your path
And to walk, like Christ, in grace and love
And guide you into my armsInto my arms, O Lord
Into my arms, O Lord
Into my arms, O Lord
Into my armsBut I believe in Love
And I know that you do too
And I believe in some kind of path
That we can walk down, me and you
So keep your candles burning
And make her journey bright and pure
That she will keep returning
Always and evermoreInto my arms, O Lord
Into my arms, O Lord
Into my arms, O Lord
Into my armsThe boatman calls from the lake
A lone loon dives upon the water
I put my hand over hers
Down in the lime tree arbour
The wind in the trees is whispering
Whispering low that I love her
She puts her hand over mine
Down in the lime tree arbourThrough every breath that I breathe
And every place I go
There is a hand that protects me
And I do love her soThere will always be suffering
It flows through life like water
I put my hand over hers
Down in the lime tree arbourThe boatman he has gone
And the loons have flown for cover
She puts her hand over mine
Down in the lime tree arbourThrough every word that I speak
And every thing I know
There is a hand that protects me
And I do love her soPeople just ain’t no good
I think that’s well understood
You can see it everywhere you look
People just ain’t no goodWe were married under cherry trees
Under blossom we made our vows
All the blossoms come sailing down
Through the streets and through the playgroundsThe sun would stream on the sheets
Awoken by the morning bird
We’d buy the Sunday newspapers
And never read a single wordPeople they ain’t no good
People they ain’t no good
People they ain’t no goodSeasons came, seasons went
The winter stripped the blossoms bare
A different tree now lines the streets
Shaking its fists in the airThe winter slammed us like a fist
The windows rattling in the gales
To which she drew the curtains
Made out of her wedding veilsPeople they ain’t no good
People they ain’t no good
People they ain’t no goodTo our love send a dozen white lilies
To our love send a coffin of wood
To our love let all the pink-eyed pigeons coo
That people they just ain’t no goodTo our love send back all the letters
To our love a valentine of blood
To our love let all the jilted lovers cry
That people they just ain’t no goodIt ain’t that in their hearts they’re bad
They can comfort you, some even try
They nurse you when you’re ill of health
They bury you when you go and dieIt ain’t that in their hearts they’re bad
They’d stick by you if they could
But that’s just bullshit
People just ain’t no goodPeople they ain’t no good
People they ain’t no good
People they ain’t no good
People they ain’t no goodUp those stone steps I climb
Hail this joyful day’s return
Into its great shadowed vault I go
Hail the Pentecostal mornThe reading is from Luke 24
Where Christ returns to his loved ones
I look at the stone apostles
Think that it’s alright for someAnd I wish that I was made of stone
So that I would not have to see
A beauty impossible to define
A beauty impossible to believeA beauty impossible to endure
The blood imparted in little sips
The smell of you still on my hands
As I bring the cup up to my lipsNo God up in the sky
No devil beneath the sea
Could do the job that you did
Of bringing me to my kneesOutside I sit on the stone steps
With nothing much to do
Forlorn and exhausted, baby
By the absence of youJust like a bird That sings up the sun
In a dawn so very dark
Such is my faith for you
Such is my faith
And all the world’s darkness
Can’t swallow up
One single spark
Such is my love for you
Such is my loveThere is a kingdom
There is a king
And He lives without
And He lives withinThe starry heavens above me
The mortal law within
So the world appears
So the world appears
This day so sweet
It will never come again
So the world appears
Through this mist of tearsThere is a kingdom
There is a king
And He lives without
And He lives within
And He is everythingI’ve felt you coming, girl, as you drew near
I knew you’d find me, cause I longed you here
Are you my destiny?
Is this how you’ll appear?
Wrapped in a coat with tears in your eyes?
Well take that coat, babe, and throw it on the floor
Are you the one that I’ve been waiting for?As you’ve been moving surely toward me
My soul has comforted and assured me
That in time my heart it will reward me
And that all will be revealed
So I’ve sat and I’ve watched an ice-age thaw
Are you the one that I’ve been waiting for?Out of sorrow entire worlds have been built
Out of longing great wonders have been willed
They’re only little tears, darling, let them spill
And lay your head upon my shoulder
Outside my window the world has gone to war
Are you the one that I’ve been waiting for?O we will know, won’t we?
The stars will explode in the sky
O but they don’t, do they?
Stars have their moment and then they dieThere’s a man who spoke wonders
Though I’ve never met him
He said, ‘He who seeks finds
And who knocks will be let in’
I think of you in motion
And just how close you are getting
And how every little thing anticipates you
All down my veins my heart-strings call
Are you the one that I’ve been waiting for?I remember a girl so very well
The carnival drums all mad in the air
Grim reapers and skeletons and a missionary bell
O where do we go now but nowhere?In a colonial hotel we fucked up the sun
And then we fucked it down again
Well the sun comes up and the sun goes down
Going round and around to nowhere
The kitten that padded and purred on my lap
Now swipes at my face with the paw of a bear
I turn the other cheek and you lay into that
O where do we go now but nowhere?O wake up, my love, my lover, wake up
O wake up, my love, my lover, wake upAcross clinical benches with nothing to talk
Breathing tea and biscuits and the Serenity Prayer
While the bones of our child crumble like chalk
O where do we go now but nowhere?I remember a girl so bold and so bright
Loose-limbed and laughing and brazen and bare
Sits gnawing her knuckles in the chemical light
O where do we go now but nowhere?You come for me now with a cake that you’ve made
Ravaged avenger with a clip in your hair
Full of glass and bleach and my old razor blades
O where do we go now but nowhere?O wake up, my love, my lover, wake up
O wake up, my love, my lover, wake upIf they’d give me my clothes back then I could go home
From this fresh, this clean, antiseptic air
Behind the locked gates an old donkey moans
O where do we go now but nowhere?Around the duck pond we grimly mope
Gloomily and mournfully we go round again
And one more doomed time and without much hope
Going round and around to nowhereFrom the balcony we watched the carnival band
The crack of the drum a little child did scare
I can still feel his tiny fingers pressed in my hand
O where do we go now but nowhere?If I could relive one day of my life
If I could relive just a single one
You on the balcony, my future wife
O who could have known, but no one?O wake up, my love, my lover, wake up
O wake up, my love, my lover, wake upWith a crooked smileAnd a heart-shaped faceComes from the West countryWhere the birds sing bassShe’s got a house-big heartWhere we all liveAnd plead and counsel and forgiveHer widow’s peak, her lips I’ve kissedHer glove of bones at her wristThat I have held in my handHer Spanish fly and her monkey glandHer Godly body and its fourteen stationsThat I have embraced, her palpitationsHer unborn baby crying, ‘Mummy’Amongst the rubble of her bodyHer lovely lidded eyes I’ve sippedHer fingernails, all pink and chippedHer accent which I’m told is ‘broad’That I have heard and has been pouredInto my human heart and filled meWith love, up to the brim, and killed meAnd rebuilt me back anewWith something to look forward toWell, who could ask much more than that?A West country girl with a big fat catThat looks into her eyes of greenAnd meows, ‘He loves you’, then meows againLast night my kissesWere banked in black hairAnd in my bed, my lover,Her hair was midnight blackAnd all her mystery dwelledWithin her black hairAnd her black hair framedA happy heart-shaped faceAnd heavy-hooded eyesInside her black hairShined at me from the depthsOf her hair of deepest blackWhile my fingers pushed intoHer straight black hairPulling her black hair backFrom her happy heart-shaped faceTo kiss her milk-white throat,A dark curtain of black hairSmothered me, my loverWith her beautiful black hairThe smell of it is heavyIt is charged with lifeOn my fingers lingers the smellOf her deep black hairFull of all my whispered words,Her black hairAnd wet with tears and goodbyes,Her hair of deepest blackAll my tears cried againstHer milk-white throatHidden behind the curtainOf her beautiful black hairAs deep as ink and black,Black as the deepest seaThe smell of her black hairUpon my pillowWhere her head and all it'sBlack hair did restToday she took a train to the WestToday she took a train to the WestToday she took a train to the WestAs they’re taking me down, my friend
And as they usher me off to my end
Will I bid you adieu?
Or will I be seeing you soon?
If what they say around here is true
Then we’ll meet again
Me and youMy time is at hand, my dove
They’re gunna pass me to that house above
Is Heaven just for victims, dear?
Where only those in pain go?
Well it take two to tango
We will meet again, my love
I knowIf you’re in Heaven then you’ll forgive me, dear
Because that’s what they do up there
But if you’re in Hell, then what can I say
You probably deserved it anyway
I guess I’m gunna find out any day
For we will meet again
And there’ll be Hell to payYour face comes to me from the depths, dear
Your silent mouth mouths, ‘Yes’, dear
Dark read and big with blood
They’re gunna shut me down, my love
They’re gunna launch me into the stars
Well, all things come to pass
Yeah, Glory HallelujahThis prayer is for you, my love
Sent on the wings of a dove
An idiot prayer of empty words
Love, dear, is strictly for the birds
We each get what we deserve
My little snow white dove
Rest assuredFor you, dear, I was born
For you I was raised up
For you I’ve lived and for you I will die
For you I am dying now
You were my mad little lover
In a world where everybody fucks everybody else overYou who are so
Far from me
So far from me
Way across some cold neurotic sea
Far from meI would talk to you of all manner of things
With a smile you would reply
Then the sun would leave your pretty face
And you’d retreat from the front of your eyes
I keep hearing that you’re doing your best
I hope your heart beats happy
In your infant breastYou are so far from me
Far from me
Far from meThere is no knowledge but I know it
There’s nothing to learn from that vacant voice
That sails to me across the line
From the ridiculous to the sublime
It’s good to hear you’re doing so well
But really can’t you find somebody else that you can ring and tell?Did you ever care for me?
Were you ever there for me? So far from meYou told me you’d stick by me
Through the thick and through the thin
Those were your very words
My fair-weather friend
You were my brave-hearted lover
At the first taste of trouble went running back to motherSo far from me
Far from me
Suspended in your bleak and fishless sea
Far from me
Far from meAs I sat sadly by her side
At the window, through the glass
She stroked a kitten in her lap
And we watched the world as it fell past
Softly she spoke these words to me
And with brand new eyes, open wide
We pressed our faces to the glass
As I sat sadly by her sideShe said,”Father, mother, sister, brother,
Uncle, aunt, nephew, niece,
Soldier, sailor, physician, labourer,
Actor, scientist, mechanic, priest
Earth and moon and sun and stars
Planets and comets with tails blazing
All are there forever falling
Falling lovely and amazing”Then she smiled and turned to me
And waited for me to reply
Her hair was falling down her shoulders
As I sat sadly by her sideAs I sat sadly by her side
The kitten she did gently pass
Over to me and again we pressed
Our different faces to the glass
“That may be very well”, I said
“But watch the one falling in the street
See him gesture to his neighbours
See him trampled beneath their feet
All outward motion connects to nothing
For each is concerned with their immediate need
Witness the man reaching up from the gutter
See the other one stumbling on who can not see”With trembling hand I turned toward her
And pushed the hair out of her eyes
The kitten jumped back to her lap
As I sat sadly by her sideThen she drew the curtains down
And said, “When will you ever learn
That what happens there beyond the glass
Is simply none of your concern?
God has given you but one heart
You are not a home for the hearts of your
brothersAnd God does not care for your benevolence
Anymore than he cares for the lack of it in others
Nor does he care for you to sit
At windows in judgement of the world He created
While sorrows pile up around you
Ugly, useless and over-inflated”At which she turned her head away
Great tears leaping from her eyes
I could not wipe the smile from my face
As I sat sadly by her sideAnd no more shall we part
It will no longer be necessary
And no more will I say, dear heart
I am alone and she has left meAnd no more shall we part
The contracts are drawn up, the ring is locked
upon the finger
And never again will my letters start
Sadly, or in the depths of winterAnd no more shall we part
All the hatchets have been buried now
And all of birds will sing to your beautiful heart
Upon the boughAnd no more shall we part
Your chain of command has been silenced now
And all of those birds would’ve sung to your
beautiful heart
AnyhowLord, stay by me
Don’t go down
I will never be free
If I’m not free nowLord, stay by me
Don’t go down
I never was free
What are you talking about?For no more shall we part
And no more shall we partOn the first day of May I took to the road
I’d been staring out the window most of the
morning
I’d watched the rain claw at the glass
And a vicious wind blew hard and fast
I should have taken it as a warning
As a warning As a warning
As a warningI’d given my nurse the weekend off
My meals were ill prepared
My typewriter had turned mute as a tomb
And my piano crouched in the corner of my room
With all its teeth bared
All its teeth bared All its teeth bared
All its teeth baredHallelujah Hallelujah
Hallelujah HallelujahI left my house without my coat
Something my nurse would not have allowed
And I took the small roads out of town
And I passed a cow and the cow was brown
And my pyjamas clung to me like a shroud
Like a shroud Like a shroud
Like a shroudThere rose before me a little house
With all hope and dreams kept within
A woman’s voice close to my ear
Said, “Why don’t you come in here?”
“You looked soaked to the skin”
Soaked to the skin Soaked to the skin
Soaked to the skinHallelujah Hallelujah
Hallelujah HallelujahI turned to the woman and the woman was young
I extended a hearty salutation
But I knew if my nurse had been here
She would never in a thousand years
Permit me to accept that invitation
Invitation That invitation
That invitationNow, you might think it wise to risk it all
Throw caution to the reckless wind
But with her hot cocoa and her medication
My nurse had been my one salvation
So I turned back home
I turned back home I turned back home
Singing my songHallelujah
The tears are welling in my eyes again
Hallelujah
I need twenty big buckets to catch them in
Hallelujah
And twenty pretty girls to carry them down
Hallelujah
And twenty deep holes to bury them in
Hallelujah
The tears are welling in my eyes again
Hallelujah
I need twenty big buckets to catch them in
Hallelujah
And twenty pretty girls to carry them down
Hallelujah
And twenty deep holes to bury them inI hold this letter in my hand
A plea, a petition, a kind of prayer
I hope it does as I have planned
Losing her again is more than I can bear
I kiss the cold, white envelope
I press my lips against her name
Two hundred words. We live in hope
The sky hangs heavy with rainLove Letter Love Letter
Go get her Go get her
Love Letter Love Letter
Go tell her Go tell herA wicked wind whips up the hill
A handful of hopeful words
I love her and I always will
The sky is ready to burst
Said something I did not mean to say
Said something I did not mean to say
Said something I did not mean to say
It all came out the wrong wayLove Letter Love Letter
Go get her Go get her
Love Letter Love Letter
Go tell her Go tell herRain your kisses down upon me
Rain your kisses down in storms
And for all who’ll come before me
In your slowly fading forms
I’m going out of my mind
Will leave me standing in
The rain with a letter and a prayer
Whispered on the windCome back to me
Come back to me
O baby please come back to meWhere is Mona?
She’s long gone
Where is Mary?
She’s taken her along
But they haven’t put their mittens on
And there’s fifteen feet of pure white snow?Where is Michael?
Where is Mark?
Where is Mathew
Now it’s getting dark?
Where is John? They are all out back
Under fifteen feet of pure white snowWould you please put down that telephone
We’re under fifteen feet of pure white snowI waved to my neighbour
My neighbour waved to me
But my neighbour
Is my enemy
I kept waving my arms
Till I could not see
Under fifteen feet of pure white snowIs anybody
Out there please?
It’s too quiet in here
And I’m beginning to freeze
I’ve got icicles hanging
From my knees
Under fifteen feet of pure white snowIs there anybody here who feels this low?
Under fifteen feet of pure white snowRaise your hands up to the sky
Raise your hands up to the sky
Raise your hands up to the sky
Is it any wonder?
Oh my Lord Oh my Lord
Oh my Lord Oh my LordDoctor, Doctor
I’m going mad
This is the worst day
I’ve ever had
I can’t remember
Ever feeling this bad
Under fifteen feet of pure white snowWhere’s my nurse
I need some healing
I’ve been paralysed
By a lack of feeling
I can’t even find
Anything worth stealing
Under fifteen feet of pure white snowIs there anyone else here who doesn’t know?
We’re under fifteen feet of pure white snowRaise your hands up to the sky
Raise your hands up to the sky
Raise your hands up to the sky
Is it any wonder?
Oh my Lord Oh my Lord
Oh my Lord Oh my Lord
Save Yourself! Help Yourself!
Save Yourself! Help Yourself!
Save Yourself! Help Yourself!
Save Yourself! Help Yourself!We’ve laid the cables and the wires
We’ve split the wood and stoked the fires
We’ve lit our town so there is no
Place for crime to hide
Our little church is painted white
And in the safety of the night
We all go quiet as a mouse
For the word is out
God is in the house
God is in the house
God is in the house
No cause for worry now
God is in the houseMoral sneaks in the White House
Computer geeks in the school house
Drug freaks in the crack house
We don’t have that stuff here
We have a tiny little Force
But we need them of course
For the kittens in the trees
And at night we are on our knees
As quiet as a mouse
For God is in the house
God is in the house
God is in the house
And no one’s left in doubt
God is in the houseHomos roaming the streets in packs
Queer bashers with tyre-jacks
Lesbian counter-attacks
That stuff is for the big cities
Our town is very pretty
We have a pretty little square
We have a woman for a mayor
Our policy is firm but fair
Now that God is in the house
God is in the house
God is in the house
Any day now He’ll come out
God is in the houseWell-meaning little therapists
Goose-stepping twelve-stepping Tetotalitarianists
The tipsy, the reeling and the drop down pissed
We got no time for that stuff here
Zero crime and no fear
We’ve bred all our kittens white
So you can see them in the night
And at night we’re on our knees
As quiet as a mouse
Since the word got out
From the North down to the South
For no-one’s left in doubt
There’s no fear about
If we all hold hands and very quietly shout
Hallelujah
God is in the house
God is in the house
Oh I wish He would come out
God is in the houseI thought I’d take a walk today
It’s a mistake I sometimes make
My children lay asleep in bed
My wife lay wide-awake
I kissed her softly on the brow
I tried not to make a sound
But with stony eyes she looked at me
And gently squeezed my hand
Call it a premonition, call it a crazy vision
Call it intuition, something learned from mother
But when she looked up at me, I could clearly see
The Sword of Damocles hanging directly above her
Oh Lord Oh my Lord
Oh Lord
How have I offended thee?
Wrap your tender arms around me
Oh Lord Oh Lord
Oh My LordThey called at me through the fence
They were not making any sense
They claimed that I had lost the plot
Kept saying that I was not
The man I used to be
They held their babes aloft
Threw marsh mellows at the Security
And said that I’d grown softCall it intuition, call it a creeping suspicion,
But their words of derision meant they hardly
knew me
For even I could see in the way they looked at me
The Spear of Destiny sticking right through me
Oh Lord Oh my Lord
Oh Lord
How have I offended thee?
Wrap your tender arms round me
Oh Lord Oh Lord
Oh My LordNow I’m at the hairdressers
People watch me as they move past
A guy wearing plastic antlers
Presses his bum against the glass
Now I’m down on my hands and knees
And it’s so fucking hot!
Someone cries, “What are you looking for?”
I scream, “The plot, the plot!”
I grab my telephone, I call my wife at home
She screams, “Leave us alone!” I say, “Hey,
it’s only me”
The hairdresser with his scissors, he holds up
the mirror
I look back and shiver; I can’t even believe what
I can seeBe mindful of the prayers you send
Pray hard but pray with care
For the tears that you are crying now
Are just your answered prayers
The ladders of life that we scale merrily
Move mysteriously around
So that when you think you’re climbing up, man
In fact you’re climbing down
Into the hollows of glamour, where with spikes
and hammer
With telescopic camera, they chose to turn
the screw
Oh I hate them, Ma! Oh I hate them, Pa!
Oh I hate them all for what they went and
done to you
Oh Lord Oh my Lord
Oh Lord
How have I offended thee?
Wrap your tender arms round me
Oh Lord Oh Lord
Oh My LordCome over here, babe
It ain’t that bad
I don’t claim to understand
The troubles that you’ve had
But the dogs you say they fed you to
Lay their muzzles in your lap
And the lions that they led you to
Lie down and take a nap
The ones you fear are wind and air
And I love you without measure
It seems we can be happy now
Be it better late than neverSweetheart, come
Sweetheart, come
Sweetheart, come
Sweetheart, come to meThe burdens that you carry now
Are not of your creation
So let’s not weep for their evil deeds
But for their lack of imagination
Today’s the time for courage, babe
Tomorrow can be for forgiving
And if he touches you again with his stupid hands
His life won’t be worth livingSweetheart, come
Sweetheart, come
Sweetheart, come
Sweetheart, come to meWalk with me now under the stars
For it’s a clear and easy pleasure
And be happy in my company
For I love you without measure
Walk with me now under the stars
It’s a safe and easy pleasure
It seems we can be happy now
It’s late but it ain’t never
It’s late but it ain’t never
It’s late but it ain’t neverI married my wife on the day of the eclipse
Our friends awarded her courage with gifts
Now as the nights grow longer and the season shifts
I look to my sorrowful wife
Who is quietly tending her flowers
Who is quietly tending her …..The water is high on the beckoning river
I made her a promise I could not deliver
And the cry of the birds sends a terrible shiver
Through me and my sorrowful wife
Who is shifting the furniture around
Who is shifting the furniture aroundNow we sit beneath the knotted Yew
And the bluebells bob around our shoes
The task of remembering the telltale clues
Goes to my lovely, my sorrowful wife
Who is counting the days on her fingers
Who is counting the days on her …..Come on and help me babe
Come on now
Help me babe
I was blind
The grass here grows long and high
Twists right up to the sky
White clouds roll on by
Come on now and help me babe
I was blind
I was a fool babe
I was blind
Come on now
A loose wind last night blew down
Black trees bent to the ground
Their blossoms made such a sound
That I could not hear myself think babe
Come on now
And help me babe
Help me now
I was blind
I was a foolI left by the back door
With my wife’s lover’s smoking gun
I don’t know what I was hoping for
I hit the road at a run
I was your lover
I was your man
There never was no other
I was your friend
Till we came along this road
Till we came along this road
Till we came along this roadI ain’t sent you no letters, Ma
But I’m looking quite a trip
The world spinning beneath me, Ma
Guns blazing at my hip
You were my lover
You were my friend
There never was no other
On whom I could depend
Then we came along this road
We came along this road
We came along this roadPast the ivy-covered windows of The Angel
Down Athenaeum Lane to the cathedral
Through the churchyard I wandered
Sat for a spell there and I pondered
My back to the gates of the garden
My back to the gates of the garden
My back to the gates of the gardenFugitive fathers, sickly infants, decent mothers
Runaways and suicidal lovers
Assorted boxes of ordinary bones
Of aborted plans and sudden shattered hopes
In unlucky rows, up to the gates of the garden
In unhappy rows, up to the gates of the garden
In unlucky rows, up to the gates of the gardenWon’t you meet me at the gates
Won’t you meet me at the gates
Won’t you meet me at the gates
To the gardenBeneath the creeping shadow of the tower
The bell from St. Edmunds informs me of the hour
I turn to find you waiting there for me
In sunlight and I see the way that you breathe
Alive and leaning on the gates of the garden
Alive and leaning on the gates of the garden
Alive and leaning on the gates of the gardenLeave these ancient places to the angels
Let the saints attend to their keeping of the
cathedrals
And leave the dead beneath the ground so cold
For God is in this hand that I hold
As we open up the gates of the gardenWon’t you meet me at the gates
Won’t you meet me at the gates
Won’t you meet me at the gates
To the gardenAs so with that, I thought I’d take a final walk
The tide of public opinion had started to abate
The neighbours, bless them, had turned out
to be all talk
I could see their frightened faces
peering at me through the gateI was looking for an end to this, for some kind
of closure
Time moved so rapidly, I had no hope of keeping
track of it
I thought of my friends who had died of exposure
And I remembered other ones who had died
from the lack of itAnd in my best shoes I started falling forward
down the street
I stopped at a church and jostled through the crowd
And love followed just behind me, panting at
my feet
As the steeple tore the stomach from a lonely
little cloudInside I sat, seeking the presence of a God
I searched through the pictures in a leatherbound book
I found a woolly lamb dozing in an issue of blood
And a gilled Jesus shivering on a fisherman’s hookBabe
It seems so long
Since you’ve been gone away
And I
Just got to say
That it grows darker with the dayBack on the street I saw a great big smiling sun
It was a Good day and an Evil day and all was
bright and new
And it seemed to me that most destruction was
being done
By those who could not choose between the twoAmateurs, dilettantes, hacks, cowboys, clones
The streets groan with little Caesars, Napoleons
and cunts
With their building blocks and their tiny plastic
phones
Counting on their fingers, with crumbs down
their frontsI passed by your garden, saw you with your flowers
The Magnolias, Camellias and Azaleas so sweet
And I stood there invisible in the panicking crowds
You looked so beautiful in the rising heatI smell smoke, see little fires bursting on the lawns
People carry on regardless, listening to their hands
Great cracks appear in the pavement, the
earth yawns
Bored and disgusted, to do us downBabe
It seems so long
Since you’ve been gone
And I
Just got to say
That it grows darker with the dayThese streets are frozen now. I come and go
Full of a longing for something I do not know
My father sits slumped in the deepening snow
As I search, in and out, above, about, belowBabe
It seems so long
Since you went away
And I
Just got to say
That it grows darker with the dayCome in, babe
Across these purple fields
The sun has sunk behind you
Across these purple fields
That idiot-boy in the corner
Is speaking deviated truths
Come on, admit it, babe
It’s a wonderful life
If you can find it
If you can find it
If you can find it
It’s a wonderful life that you bring
Ooh it’s a wonderful thingSpeak our secret into your hands
And hold it in between
Plunge your hands into the water
And drown it in the sea
There will be nothing between us, baby
But the air that we breathe
Don’t cry
It’s a wonderful life, wonderful life
if you can find it
If you can find it
If you can find it
It’s a wonderful life that you bring
It’s a wonderful, wonderful thingWe can build our dungeons in the air
And sit and cry the blues
We can stomp across this world
With nails hammered through our shoes
We can join that troubled chorus
Who criticise and accuse
It don’t matter much
We got nothing much to lose
But this wonderful life
If you can find it
And when you find it
And when you find it
It’s a wonderful life that you bring
It’s a wonderful, wonderful, wonderful thingSometimes our secrets are all we’ve got
With our lives we must defend
Sometimes the air between us, babe
Is unbearably thin
Sometimes it’s wise to lay down your gloves
And just give in
Come in, come in
Come in, come in
To this wonderful life
If you can find it
And if you find it
It’s a wonderful life that you bring
It’s a wonderful, wonderful thing
It’s a wonderful life
It’s a wonderful lifeIn his boat and through the dark he rowed
Chained to oar and the night and the wind that blowed
Horribly ‘round his ears
Under the bridge and into your dreams he soars
While you lie alone in that idea-free sleep of yours
That you’ve been sleeping now for yearsAnd he wants you
He wants you
He is straight and he is true
Ooh hoo hooBeneath the hanging cliffs and under the many stars where
He will move, all amongst your tangled hair
And deep into the sea
And you will wake and walk and draw the blind
And feel some presence there behind
And turn to see what that may be
Oh, babe, it’s meAnd he wants you
He wants you
He is straight and he is true
Ooh hoo hooPlease forgive me
If I appear unkind
But any fool can tell you
It’s all in your mindDown in the meadow
The old lion stirs
Puts his hand across his mouth
He has no use for wordsPoor little girl
With your handful of snow
Poor little girl
Had no way to knowAnd you’ve got me eating
you’ve got me eating
You’ve got me eating
Right out of your handI mean you no harm
When I tell you you’re blind
Give a sucker an even break
He’ll lose it all, every timeThe airborne starlings circle
One the frozen fields
The hollyhocks hang harmlessly
And the old lion yieldsAnd you’ve got me eating
You’ve got me eating
You’ve got me eating
Right out of your handThis garden that I built for you
That you sit in now and yearn
I will never leave it, dear
I could not bear to return
And find it all untended
With the trees all bended low
This garden is our home, dear
And I got nowhere else to goSo bring it on
Bring it on
Every little tear
Bring it on
Every useless fear
Bring it on
All your shattered dreams
And I’ll scatter them into the sea
Into the seaThe geraniums on your window sill
The carnations, dear, and the daffodil
Well, they’re ordinary flowers
But they long for the light of your touch
And of your trembling will
Ah, you’re trembling still
And I am trembling too
To be perfectly honest I don’t know
Quite else what to doSo bring it on
Bring it on
Every neglected dream
Bring it on
Every little scheme
Bring it on
Every little fear
And I’ll make them disappearSo bring it on, bring it on
Bring it on
Every little thing
Bring it on
Every tiny fear
Bring it on
Every shattered dream
And I’ll scatter them into the seaShe sat in a wicker chair, her eyes they were downcast
She breathed in the future, by breathing out the past
The die is done, the die is shook, the die is duly cast
There’s a dead man in my bed, she said
That smile you see upon his face
It’s been there for many days
There’s a dead man in my bedI ain’t been feeling that good too much no more, she said, I swear
She pointed at the bedroom door and said I ain’t going in there
She leaped out of her seat and screamed someone’s not concentrating here
There’s a dead man in my bed, she said
I ain’t speaking metaphorically
His eyes are open but he cannot see
There’s a dead man in my bedThen leaves outside the window waved, all brown, they were, and falling
Even I could tell the atmosphere in here was utterly appalling
The phone it rand incessantly but nobody was calling
There’s a dead man in my bed, she said
And though he keeps on taking notes
I swear this ain’t some kind of hoax
There’s a dead man in my bedNow she’s in the kitchen rattling those pots and pans
I’d cook him something nice, she said, but he refuses to wash his hands
He used to be so good to me, but now he smells so fucking bad
There is a dead man in my bed, she says
I keep poking at him with my stick
But his skin is just so fucking thick
There’s a dead man in my bedThe cops are hanging around the house
The cars outside look like they’ve got the blues
The moon don’t know if it’s day or night
Everybody’s creeping around with plastic covers on their shoes
You’re making coffee for everyone concerned
Someone points to this and someone points to that
Everyone is saying that you should lie down
But you ain’t having none of that
And I say to the sleepy summer rain
With a complete absence of pain
You might think I’m crazy
But I’m still in love with youHide your eyes, hide your tears
Hide your face, my love
Hide your ribbons, hide your bows
Hide your coloured cotton gloves
Hide your trinkets, hide your treasures
Hide your neatly scissored locks
Hide your memories, hide them all
Stuff them in a cardboard box
Or throw them into the street below
Leave them to the wind and the rain and the snow
For you might think I’m crazy
But I’m still in love with youCall me up, baby, and I will answer your call
Call me up but remember I am no use to you at all
Now, you’re standing at the top of the stairs
One hand on the banister, a flower in your hair
The other one resting on your hip
Without a solitary care
I fall to sleep in the summer rain
With no single memory of pain
And you might think I’m crazy
But I’m still in love with youThere is a town
Where I was born
Far far away
Across the seaAnd in that town
Where I was born
I would dream
That one day
I would leave
And cross the seaAnd so it goes
And so it seems
That God lives only in our dreams
In our dreamsAnd now I live
In this town
I walk these dark streets
Up and down, up and down
Under a dark sky
And I dream
That one day
I’ll go back homeAnd so it goes
And so it seems
That God lives only in our dreams
In our dreamsLet me say this to you
I’ll be steadfast and true
And my love will never falterThe sea would crash about us
The waves would lash about us
I’ll be your Rock of GibraltarThe best thing I done
Was to make you the one
Who I’d walk with down to the altarYou’d stand by me
And together we’d be
That great, steady Rock of GibraltarUnder the big yellow moon
On our honeymoon
I took you on a trip to MaltaAnd all through the night
You held me so tight
Your great, steady Rock of GibraltarCould the powers that be
Ever forsee
That things could so utterly alter?All the plans that we laid
Could soon be betrayed
Betrayed like the Rock of GibraltarShe passed by my window
Her eyes were all aglow
And bent to pick her glove she’d dropped
From the bright and brittle snowNature had spoken it in the Spring
With apple, plum and brand new pear
Have you time for my company?
No, I said, I have none to spareYou gotta sanctify my love
You gotta sanctify my love
You gotta sanctify my love
I ain’t no lover-boyFor apple, plum and brand new pear
Soon wither on the ground
She slapped the snow from off her glove
And move on without a soundYou gotta sanctify my love
You gotta sanctify my love
You gotta sanctify my love
I ain’t no lover-boyFather says it, mother says it
Sister says it, brother says it
Uncle says it, Auntie says it
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe horse says it, the pig says it
The judge in his wig says it
The fox and the rabbit
And the nun in her habit says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireMy mate Bill Gates says it
The President of the United States says it
The slacker and the worker
The girl in her burqa says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe general with his tank says it
The man at the bank says it
The soldier with his rocket
And the mouse in my pocket says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe drug-addled wreck
With a needle in his neck says it
The drunk says it, punk says it
The brave Buddhist monk says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireHit me up, baby, and knock me down
Drop what you’re doing and come around
We can hold hand till the sun goes down
Cause I know
That you
And I
Can be
Together
Cause I love youThe blind referee says it
The unlucky amputee says it
The giant killer bee
Landing on my knee says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe cop with his breathalyser
The paddy with his fertiliser
The man in the basement
That’s getting a taste for it says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe fucked-up Rastafarian says it
The dribbling libertarian says it
The sweet little Goth
With the ears of cloth says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe cross-over country singer says it
The hump-backed bell ringer says it
The swinger, the flinger
The outraged right-winger says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe man going hiking says it
The misunderstood Viking says it
The man at the rodeo
And the lonely Eskimo says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe mild little Christian says it
The wild Sonny Liston says it
The pimp and the gimp
And the guy with the limp says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe blind piano tuner says it
The Las Vegas crooner says it
The hooligan sooner
Holding a schooner says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe Chinese contortionist says it
The backyard abortionist says it
The poor Pakistani
With his lamb Bhirriani says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe hopeless defendant says it
The toilet attendant says it
The pornographer, the stenographer
The fashion photographer says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe college professor says it
The vicious cross-dresser says it
Grandma and Grandpa
In the back of the car says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe hack at the doorstep says it
The midwife with her forceps says it
The demented young lady
Who is roasting her baby
On the fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe athlete with his hernia says it
Picasso with his Guernica says it
My wife with her furniture
Everybody!
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe laughing hyena says it
The homesick polish cleaner says it
The man from the Klan
With a torch in his hand says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe Chinese herbologist says it
The Christian apologist says it
The dog and the frog
Sitting on a log says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe foxhunting toff says it
The horrible moth says it
The doomed homosexual
With the persistent cough says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe Papist with his should says it
The rapist on a roll says it
Jack says it, Jill says it
As they roll down the hill
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe clever circus flea says it
The sailor on the sea says it
The man from the Daily Mail
With his dead refugee says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe hymen-busting Zulu says it
The proud kangaroo says it
The koala, the echidna
And the platypus too says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe disgraced country vicar says it
The crazed guitar picker says it
The beatnik, the peacenik
The apparatchik says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe deranged midnight stalker says it
Garcia Lorca says it
The hit man, Walt Whitman
And the haliototic talker says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe wine taster with his nose says it
The fireman with his hose says it
The pedestrian, the equestrian
The tap-dancer with his toes says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe beast in the beauty pageant
The pimply real estate agent
The beach-comber, the roamer
The girl in a coma says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe old rock’n’roller
With his two-seater stroller
And the fan in the van
With the abominable plan says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe menstruating Jewess says it
The nervous stewardess says it
The hijacker, the backpacker
The cunning safecracker says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe sports commentator says it
The old alligator says it
The tennis pro with his racquet
The loon in the straight jacket
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe butcher with his cleaver says it
The mad basket weaver says it
The jaded boxing writer
And the glass-jawed fighter says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe old town cryer says it
The inveterate liar says it
The pilchard, the bream
And the trout in the steam
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe war correspondent says it
The enthused and the despondent says it
The electrician, the mortician
And the man going fishing’ says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe cattleman from Down Under says it
The patriot with his plunder says it
Watching a boat full of refugees
Sinking into the sea
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe silicone junky says it
The corporate flunky says it
The Italian designer
With his rickshaw in China says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe trucker with his juggernaut says it
The lost astronaut says it
The share cropper, the bent copper
The compulsive shopper says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireThe Viennese vampire says it
The cowboy round his campfire says it
The game show panellist
The Jungian analyst says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireWarren says it, Blix says it
The lighting guy and mixer says it
Mick says it, Marty says it
Everyone at the party says
Babe, I’m on fire
Babe, I’m on fireGet ready for love! Praise Him!
Get ready for love! Praise Him!
Get ready for love! Get ready!Well, most of all nothing much
ever really happens
And God rides high up in the ordinary sky
Until we find ourselves at our most distracted
And the miracle that was promised
creeps quietly byCalling every boy and girl
Calling all around the world
Calling every boy and girl
Calling all around the worldGet ready for love! Praise Him!
Get ready for love! Praise Him!The mighty wave their hankies from their
high-windowed palace
Sending grief and joy down in supportable doses
And we search high and low without
mercy or malice
While the gate to the Kingdom swings
shut and closesCalling every boy and girl
Calling all around the world
Calling every boy and girl
Calling all around the worldPraise Him till you’ve forgotten
what you’re praising Him for
Praise Him till you’ve forgotten
what you’re praising Him for
Then praise Him a little moreYou have a heart and I have a key
Lie back and let me unlock you
Those heathens you hang with down by the sea
All they want to do is defrock you
I know a river, where we can dream
It will swell up, burst it’s banks,
babe, and rock you
But if you’re gonna dine with them cannibals
Sooner or later, darling, you’re gonna get eaten
But I’m glad you’ve come around
here with your animals
And your heart that is bruised but unbeaten
And beating like a drumI will sit like a bird on a fence
Sing you songs with a happy ending
Swoop down and tell you that it don’t make sense
To attack the very thing you’re defending
Didn’t I just buy that dress for you?That pink paper pinafore that you keep mending
Well, if you’re gonna dine with the cannibals
Sooner or later, darling, you’re gonna get eaten
But I’m glad you’ve come around
here with your animals
And your heart that is banging and beating
And banging like a gongI can see that they’ve hurt you, dear
Here is some moonlight to cloak us
And I will never desert you here
Unpetaled among the crocus
Allow me, my love, to allay your fear
As I swim, in and out of focus
But if you’re gonna dine with the cannibals
Sooner or later, darling, you’re gonna get eaten
But I’m glad you’ve come around
here with your animals
And your heart that is bruised but bleating
And bleeding like a lamb
Banging like a gong
Beating like a drumYou went looking for me, dear,
Down by the sea
You found some little silver fish
But you didn’t find me
I was hiding, dear, hiding all away
I was hiding, dear, hiding all awayYou went to the museum
You climbed a spiral stair
You searched for me all among
The knowledgeable air
I was hidden, babe, hiding all away
I was hidden, dear, hiding all awayYou entered the cathedral
When you heard the solemn knell
I was not sitting with the gargoyles
I was not swinging from the bell
I was hiding, dear, I was hiding all away
I was hiding, dear, I was hiding all awayYou asked an electrician
If he’d seen me round his place
He touched you with his fingers
Sent sparks zapping out your face
I was hidden, dear, hiding all away
I was not there, dear, hiding all awayYou went and asked your doctor
To get some advice
He shot you full of Pethidine
And then he billed you twice
But I was hiding, dear, hiding all away
But I was hiding, dear, hiding all awayYou approached a high court judge
You thought he’d be on the level
He wrapped a rag around your face
And beat you with his gavel
I was hiding, babe, hiding all away
I was hidden, dear, hiding all awayYou asked at the local constabulary
They said, he’s up to his same old tricks
They leered at you with their baby blues
And rubbed jelly on their sticks
I had to get out of there, babe, hiding all away
I had to get out of there, dear, hiding all awayYou searched through all my poets
From Sappho through to Auden
I saw the book fall from your hands
As you slowly died of boredom
I had been there, dear,
but I was not there anymore
I had been there, now I’m hiding all wayYou walked into the hall of fame
And approached my imitators
Some were stuffing their faces with caviar
Some were eating cold potatoes
I was hiding, dear, hiding all away
I was hiding, dear, hiding all awayYou asked a famous cook if he’d seen me
He opened his oven wide
He basted you with butter, babe
And made you crawl inside
I was not in there, dear, hiding all away
I was not in there, dear, hiding all awayI hope you’re sitting comfortably
I saved you the best seat in the house
Right up in the front row
The stars have been torn down
The moon is locked away
And the land is banked in frozen snowYou are a force of nature, dear
Your breath curls from your lips
As the trees bend down their branchesAnd touch you with their fingertips
They’re bringing out the dead, now
It’s easy just to look away
They are bringing out the dead, now
It’s been a strange, strange dayWe could navigate our position by the stars
But they’ve taken out the stars
The stars have all gone
I’m glad you’ve come along
We could comprehend our
condition by the moon
But they’ve ordered the moon not to shine
Still, I’m glad you’ve come along
I was worried out of my mind
Cause, they keep bringing out the dead
It’s easy just to look away
They’re bringing out the dead, now
And it’s been a long, strange dayYou can move up a little closer
I will throw a blanket over
We can weigh all the tears in one hand
Against the laughter in the other
We could be hanging around here for centuries
Trying to make sense of this, my dear
While the planets try to get organised
Way above the stratosphere
But they keep bringing out the dead, now
It’s easy if we just walk away
They keep bringing out the dead, now
It’s been a long, long dayLook away
Look awayThe wintergreen, the juniper
The cornflower and the chicory
All the words you said to me
Still vibrating in the air
The elm, the ash and the linden tree
The dark and deep, enchanted sea
The trembling moon and the stars unfurled
There she goes, my beautiful worldThere she goes, my beautiful world
There she goes, my beautiful world
There she goes, my beautiful world
There she goes againJohnWillmot penned his poetry
riddled with the pox
Nabakov wrote on index cards,
at a lectern, in his socks
St. John of the Cross did his best stuff
imprisoned in a box
And Johnny Thunders was half alive
when he wrote Chinese RocksWell, me, I’m lying here, with nothing in my ears
Me, I’m lying here, with nothing in my ears
Me, I’m lying here, for what seems years
I’m just lying on my bed with nothing in my headSend that stuff on down to me
Send that stuff on down to me
Send that stuff on down to me
Send that stuff on down to meThere she goes, my beautiful world
There she goes, my beautiful world
There she goes, my beautiful world
There she goes againKarl Marx squeezed his carbuncles
while writing Das Kapital
And Gaugin, he buggered off, man,
and went all tropical
While Philip Larkin stuck it out
in a library in Hull
And Dylan Thomas died drunk in
St. Vincent’s hospitalI will kneel at your feet
I will lie at your door
I will rock you to sleep
I will roll on the floor
And I’ll ask for nothing
Nothing in this life
I’ll ask for nothing
Give me ever-lasting lifeI just want to move the world
I just want to move the world
I just want to move the world
I just want to moveThere she goes, my beautiful world
There she goes, my beautiful world
There she goes, my beautiful world
There she goes againSo if you got a trumpet, get on your feet,
brother, and blow it
If you’ve got a field, that don’t yield,
well get up and hoe it
I look at you and you look at me and
deep in our hearts know it
That you weren’t much of a muse,
but then I weren’t much of a poetI will be your slave
I will peel you grapes
Up on your pedestal
With your ivory and apes
With your book of ideas
With your alchemy
O Come on
Send that stuff on down to meSend that stuff on down to me
Send that stuff on down to me
Send that stuff on down to me
Send that stuff on down to me
Send it all around the worldCause here she comes, my beautiful girl
There she goes, my beautiful world
There she goes, my beautiful world
There she goes, my beautiful world
There she goes againI was just a boy when I sat down
To watch the news on TV
I saw some ordinary slaughter
I saw some routine atrocity
My father said, don’t look away
You got to be strong, you got to be bold, now
He said, that in the end it is beauty
That is going to save the world, nowAnd she moves among the sparrows
And she floats upon the breeze
She moves among the flowers
She moves something deep inside of meI was walking around the flower show like a leper
Coming down with some kind of nervous hysteria
When I saw you standing there, green eyes, black hair
Up against the pink and purple wisteria
You said, hey, nature boy, are you looking at me
With some unrighteous intention?My knees went weak,
I couldn’t speak, I was having thoughts
That were not in my best interests to mentionAnd she moves among the flowers
And she floats upon the smoke
She moves among the shadows
She moves me with just one little lookYou took me back to your place
And dressed me up in a deep sea diver’s suit
You played the patriot, you raised the flag
And I stood at full salute
Later on we smoked a pipe that struck me dumb
And made it impossible to speak
As you closed in, in slow motion,
Quoting Sappho, in the original GreekShe moves among the shadows
She floats upon the breeze
She moves among the candles
And we moved through the days
and through the yearsYears passed by, we were walking by the sea
Half delirious
You smiled at me and said, Babe
I think this thing is getting kind of serious
You pointed at something and said
Have you ever seen such a beautiful thing?
It was then that I broke down
It was then that you lifted me up againShe moves among the sparrows
And she walks across the sea
She moves among the flowers
And she moves something deep inside of meShe moves among the sparrows
And she floats upon the breeze
She moves among the flowers
And she moves right up close to meThe sun is high up in the sky and I’m in my car
Drifting down into the abattoir
Do you see what I see, dear?The air grows heavy. I listen to your breath
Entwined together in this culture of death
Do you see what I see, dear?Slide on over here, let me give you a squeeze
To avert this unholy evolutionary trajectory
Can you hear what I hear, babe?
Does it make you feel afraid?Everything’s dissolving, babe, according to plan
The sky is on fire, the dead are heaped across the land
I went to bed last night and my
moral code got jammed
I woke up this morning with a Frappucino in my handI kissed you once. I kissed you again
My heart it tumbled like the stock exchange
Do you feel what I feel, dear?Mass extinction, darling, hypocrisy
These things are not good for me
Do you see what I see, dear?The line the God throws down to you and me
Makes a pleasing geometry
Shall we leave this place now, dear?
Is there someway out of here?I wake with the sparrows and I hurry off to work
The need for validation, babe, gone completely
berserk
I wanted to be your Superman but I turned out
such a jerk
I got the abattoir blues
I got the abattoir blues
I got the abattoir blues
Right down to my shoesC’mon, kind Sir, let’s walk outside
And breathe the autumn air
See the many that have lived and died
See the unending golden stair
See all of us that have come behind
Clutching at your hem
All the way from Arkansas
To your sweet and last amenLet the bells ring
He is the real thing
Let the bells ring
He is the real, real thingTake this deafening thunder down
Take this bread and take this wine
Your passing is not what we mourn
But the world you left behind
Well, do not breathe, nor make a sound
And behold your mighty work
That towers over the uncaring ground
Of a lesser, darker worldThere are those of us not fit to tie
The laces of your shoes
Must remain behind to testify
Through an elementary blues
So, let’s walk outside, the hour is late
Through your crumbs and scattered shells
Where the awed and the mediocre wait
Barely fit to ring the bellsFarmer Emmerich went into his barn
And found a cow suckling a serpent
And a brown ape clanking a heavy chain
Said Farmer Emmerich to the ape
Never ask me to come into this barn again
So Long
Farewell
So LongFarmer Emmerich caught the serpent
And the brown ape in a cage
And took them into his house
He fed the snake a vat of milk
And when the ape rattled its chain
He tossed the ape a mouse
So Long
Goodbye
FarewellThe villagers found out that Farmer Emmerich
Was nurturing a serpent
And descended upon his farm
All rabid in their blindness
They dragged the snake outside
Chopped it open with an axe
And the ground soaked
In the milk of human kindness
So Long
Farewell
So LongBut the brown ape escaped
And was heard to roam the ranges
Clanking its heavy chain
Down in the valley it sang to its friend
Whom he may never see againOrpheus sat gloomy in his garden shed
Wondering what to do
With a lump of wood, a piece of wire
And a little pot of glue
O Mamma O MammaHe sawed at the wood with half a heart
And glued it top to bottom
He strung a wire in between
He was feeling something rotten
O Mamma O MammaOrpheus looked at his instrument
And he gave the wire a pluck
He heard a sound so beautiful
He gasped and said O my God
O Mamma O MammaHe rushed inside to tell his wife
He went racing down the halls
Eurydice was still asleep in bed
Like a sack of cannonballs
O Mamma O MammaLook what I’ve made, cried Orpheus
And he plucked a gentle note
Eurydice’s eyes popped from their sockets
And her tongue burst through her throat
O Mamma O MammaO God, what have I done, he said
As her blood pooled in the sheets
But in his heart he felt a bliss
With which nothing could compete
O Mamma O MammaOrpheus went leaping through the fields
Strumming as hard as he did please
Birdies detonated in the sky
Bunnies dashed their brains out on the trees
O Mamma O MammaOrpheus strummed till his fingers bled
He hit a G minor 7
He woke up God from a deep, deep sleep
God was a major player in heaven
O Mamma O MammaGod picked up a giant hammer
And He threw it with a thunderous yell
It smashed down hard on Orpheus’ head
And knocked him down a well
O Mamma O Mamma
The well went down very deep
Very deep went down the well
The well went down so very deep
Well, the well went down to hell
O Mamma O MammaPoor Orpheus woke up with a start
All amongst the rotting dead
His lyre tucked safe under his arm
His brains all down his head
O Mamma O MammaEurydice appeared brindled in blood
And she said to Orpheus
If you play that fucking thing down here
I’ll stick it up your orifice!
O Mamma O MammaThis lyre lark is for the birds, said Orpheus
It’s enough to send you bats
Let’s stay down here, Eurydice, dear
And we’ll have a bunch of screaming brats
O Mamma O MammaOrpheus picked up his lyre for the last time
He was on a real low down bummer
And stared deep into the abyss and said
This one is for MammaO Mamma O Mamma
O Mamma O MammaIt’s up in the morning and on the downs
Little white clouds like gambolling lambs
And I am breathless over you
And the red-breasted robin beats his wings
His throat it trembles when he sings
For he is helpless before you
The happy hooded bluebells bow
And bend their heads all a-down
Heavied by the early morning dew
At the whispering stream, at the bubbling brook
The fishes leap up to take a look
For they are breathless over you
Still your hands
And still your heart
For still your face comes shining through
And all the morning glows anewStill your mind
Still your soul
For still, the fire of love is true
And I am breathless without you
The wind circles among the trees
And it bangs about the new-made leaves
For it is breathless without you
The fox chases the rabbit round
The rabbit hides beneath the ground
For he is defenceless without you
The sky of daytime dies away
And all the earthly things they stop to play
For we are all breathless without you
I listen to my juddering bones
The blood in my veins and the wind in my lungs
And I am breathless without you
Still your hands
And still your heart
For still your face comes shining through
And all the morning glows anew
Still your soul
Still your mind
Still, the fire of love is true
And I am breathless without youStay by me, stay by me
You are the one, my only true loveThe butcher bird makes it’s noise
And asks you to agree
With it’s brutal nesting habits
And it’s pointless savagery
Now, the nightingale sings to you
And raises up the ante
I put one hand on your round ripe heart
And the other down your pantiesEverything is falling, dear
Everything is wrong
It’s just history repeating itself
And babe, you turn me onLike a light bulb
Like a songYou race naked through the wilderness
You torment the birds and the bees
You leapt into the abyss, but find
It only goes up to your knees
I move stealthily from tree to tree
I shadow you for hours
I make like I’m a little deer
Grazing on the flowersEverything is collapsing, dear
All moral sense has gone
It’s just history repeating itself
And babe, you turn me onLike an idea
Like an Atom bomb
We stand awed inside a clearing
We do not make a sound
The crimson snow falls all about
Carpeting the groundEverything is falling, dearAll rhyme and reason gone
It’s just history repeating itself
And, babe, you turn me onLike an idea
Like an Atom bombIt’s difficult. It’s very tough.
I said to the man who’d been sleeping rough
To sit within a fragrant breeze
All among the nodding trees
That hang heavy with the stuffHe threw his arms around my neck
He brushed the tear from my cheek
And held my soft white hand
He was an understanding man
He did not even barely hardly speakEasy money
Rain it down on the wife and the kids
Rain it down on the house where we live
Rain until you got nothing left to give
And rain that ever-loving stuff down on meAll the things for which my heart yearns
Gives joy in diminishing returns
He kissed me on the mouth
His hands they headed south
And my cheek it burnedMoney, man, it is a bitch
The poor, they spoil it for the rich
With my face pressed in the clover
I wondered when this would be over
And at home we are all so guilty-sadEasy money
Pour it down the open drain
Pour it all through my veins
Pour it down, yeah, let it rain
And pour that ever-loving stuff down on meNow, I’m sitting pretty down on the bank
Life shuffles past at a low interest rate
In the money-coloured meadows
And all the interesting shadows
They leap up, then dissipateEasy money
Easy money
Easy money
Rain it down on the wife and the kids
Rain it down on the house where we live
Rain it down until you got nothing left to give
And rain that ever-loving stuff down on meThrough the windswept coastal trees
Where the dead come rising from the sea
With a teddy-bear clamped between her knees
She says, where can my loverman be?
Well, I’m down here, babe, with the Eskimos
With the polar bears and the Arctic snow
With a party of penguins who do not know
How I can get back to thee
Well I’m gonna ask you, babe
Hey! Ho!
Oh baby don’t you go
Hey! Ho!
Oh no no no
Hey! Ho!
Oh baby, don’t you go
All supernatural on me
SupernaturallyOnce I was your hearts desire
Now I am the ape hunkered by the fire
With my knuckles dragging through the mire
You float by so majestically
You’re my north, my south, my east, my west
You are the girl that I love best
With an army of tanks bursting from your chest
I wave my little white flag at theeCan you see it, babe?
Hey! Ho!
Oh baby don’t you go
Hey! Ho!
Oh no no no
Hey! Ho!
Oh baby, don’t you go
All supernatural on me
SupernaturallyNow I’ve turned the mirrors to wall
I’ve emptied out the peopled halls
I’ve nailed shut the windows and locked the doors
There is no escape, you see
I chase you up and down the stairs
Under tables and over chairs
I reach out and I touch your hair
And it cuts me like a knife
For there is always some little thing you gotta do
Hey! Ho!
Oh baby don’t you go
Hey! Ho!
Oh baby, no no no
Hey! Ho!
Oh don’t you go
All supernatural on me
SupernaturallyThrough the woods, and frosted moors
Past the snow-caked hedgerows I
Bed down upon the drifting snow
Sleep beneath the melting sky
I whisper all your names
I know not where you are
But somewhere, somewhere, somewhere here
Upon this wild abandoned starAnd I’m full of love
And I’m full of wonderAnd I’m full of love
And I’m falling under
Your spellI have no abiding memory
No awakening, no flaming dart
No word of consolation
No arrow through my heart
Only a feeble notion
A glimmer from afar
That I cling to with my fingers
As we go spinning wildly through the starsThe wind lifts me to my senses
I rise up with the dew
The snow turns to streams of light
The purple heather grows anew
I call you by your name
I know not where you are
But somehow, somewhere, sometime soon
Upon this wild abandoned starI lay down by the river
The shadows moved across me, inch by inch
And all that I heard
Was the war between the water and the bridge
Turn to me, turn to me, turn to me
Turn and drink of me
Or look away, look away, look away
And never more think of meCarry me
Carry me
I heard the many voices
Speaking to me from the depths below
This ancient wound
This catacomb
Beneath the whited snow
Come to me, come to me, come to meCome and drink of me
Or turn away, turn away, turn away
And never more think of meCarry me
Carry me away
Who will lay down their hammer?
Who will put up their sword?
And pause to see
The mystery
Of the WordCarry me
Carry me
Carry me
Carry me away
Carry me
Carry me
Carry me
Carry me awayPass me that lovely little gun
My dear, my darling one
The cleaners are coming, one by one
You don’t even want to let them startThey are knocking now upon your door
They measure the room, they know the score
They’re mopping up the butcher’s floor
Of your broken little heartsO childrenForgive us now for what we’ve done
It started out as a bit of fun
Here, take these before we run away
The keys to the gulagO children
Lift up your voice, lift up your voice
Children
Rejoice, rejoiceHere comes Frank and poor old Jim
They’re gathering round with all my friends
We’re older now, the light is dim
And you are only just beginningO childrenWe have the answer to all your fears
It’s short, it’s simple, it’s crystal clear
It’s round about, it’s somewhere here
Lost amongst our winningsO children
Lift up your voice, lift up your voice
Children
Rejoice, rejoiceThe cleaners have done their job on you
They’re hip to it, man, they’re in the groove
They’ve hosed you down, you’re good as new
They’re lining up to inspect youO childrenPoor old Jim’s white as a ghost
He’s found the answer that was lost
We’re all weeping now, weeping because
There ain’t nothing we can do to protect youO children
Lift up your voice, lift up your voice
Children
Rejoice, rejoiceHey little train! We are all jumping on
The train that goes to the Kingdom
We’re happy, Ma, we’re having fun
And the train ain’t even left the stationHey, little train! Wait for me!
I once was blind but now I see
Have you left a seat for me?
Is that such a stretch of the imagination?
Hey little train! Wait for me!I was held in chains but now I’m free
I’m hanging in there, don’t you see
In this process of eliminationHey little train! We are all jumping on
The train that goes to the Kingdom
We’re happy, Ma, we’re having fun
It’s beyond my wildest expectationHey little train! We are all jumping on
The train that goes to the Kingdom
We’re happy, Ma, we’re having fun
And the train ain’t even left the stationI’ve gotta get up to get down and start all over again
Head on down to the basement and shout
Kick those white mice and black dogs out
Kick those white mice and baboons out
Kick those baboons and other motherfuckers outAnd get it on get it on
On the day that you got bornThey had to dig him from the ground
They chipped him from the frozen snow
They dug his monkey fingers
But he had no where to go
They dug his pink hair curlers
They dug his sequined gown
They dug his Stratocaster
They dug his pornographic crownHe’s got some words of wisdom!
I got some words of wisdom!
He’s got some words of wisdom!
I got some words of wisdom!Get it on!
Get it on!
On the day that
You got born!He crawled out of the ooze
He defied evolution
He had green flippers and sang the blues
He caused a revolution
He got in the British weeklies
He got in the dailies too
He drank panther piss and fucked the girls you’re probably married toHe’s got some words of wisdom!
I got some words of wisdom!
He’s got some words of wisdom!
I got some words of wisdom!Get it on!
Get it on!
On the day that
You got born!You gotta do The Vaughan (do The Vaughan!)
Yeah, papa’s down (papa’s down!)
Sweets is sweet (sweets is sweet!)
Tex is on (tex is on!)Then one day he went away
His neighbour claimed he’d shot him
If he hadn’t of disappeared
The Taxman would have got him
Yeah but before I leave
I call out from the storm
For those who gave their lives
So we could get it on!Get it on!
Get it on!
On the day that
You were born!Get it on!
Get it on!
Get it on!
Get it on!My face is finished, my body’s gone
And I can’t help but think standin’ up here
In all this applause and gazin’ down
At all the young and the beautiful
With their questioning eyes
That I must above all things love myself
That I must above all things love myself
That I must above all things love myselfI saw a girl in the crowd
I ran over I shouted out
I asked if I could take her out
But she said that she didn’t want toI changed the sheets on my bed
I combed the hairs across my head
I sucked in my gut and still she said
That she just didn’t want toI read her Eliot, read her Yeats
I tried my best to stay up late
I fixed the hinges on her gate
But still she just never wanted toI bought her a dozen snow-white doves
I did her dishes in rubber gloves
I called her Honeybee, I called her Love
But she just still didn’t want to
She just never wants to
Dammit!I sent her every type of flower
I played her guitar by the hour
I patted her revolting little chihuahua
But still she just didn’t want toI wrote a song with a hundred lines
I picked a bunch of dandelions
I walked her through the trembling pines
But she just even then didn’t want to
She just never wants toI thought I’d try another tack
I drank a litre of cognac
I threw her down upon her back
But she just laughed and said
That she just didn’t want toI thought I’d have another go
I called her my little ho
I felt like Marcel Marceau
Must feel when she said
That she just never wanted to
She just didn’t want toI got the no pussy blues
I got the no pussy blues
I got the no pussy blues
God!
Damn!
I got the no pussy blues
I got the no pussy blues
I got the no pussy blues
I got the no pussy blues
Yeah!
Yeah!Don’t the stars look good tonight
Thought Electric Alice
In the pale moonlightDon’t the moon look big and bright
Thought Electric Alice
In the pale moonlightI think I hear a baby cry
Thought Electric Alice as she passed by
Makes me feel like I’m a little child again
Thought Electric Alice in the silver rainI’m the grinderman
In the silver rain
In the pale moonlight
I am open lateYes I’m the grinderman
Seven days a week
In the pale moonlight
In the silver rainI’m the grinderman
Any way I can
In the silver rain
In the pale moonlightYes I’m the grinderman, yes I am
In the silver rain
In the pale moonlight
I am open lateYes I’m the grinderman, yes I am
In the silver rain
In the pale moonlight
I am open late
Yes I’m the grinderman, yes I am, yes I am
Anyway I can
Yes I amCome on, JimI entered the room and the canned laughter
Ethel was angled across some dude’s knee
I offered to clothe her to feed and to bath her
If she’d just give me a little exclusivityYeah, Depth Charge Ethel is something special
Yeah, Depth Charge Ethel is special to me
YeahEthel is a woman that a river runs through
She is famous throughout the land
People come and bathe in her, yeah, you know, I do
But lately its been getting right out of handYeah, Depth Charge Ethel is something special
Yeah, Depth Charge Ethel is something special to meTo kiss Ethel is like drinking the stars
To not kiss her can make you come unglued
So if you want a piece of her you better get in there fast
Right now there is a ticket box and a queueDepth Charge Ethel is something special
Yeah, Depth Charge Ethel is something special to meDepth Charge Ethel thinks we should all just take a chance
We should all love one another, it could be special
I’m in the back of a taxicab with ants in my pants
I can’t sit still, I know they’re gonna send me
I know they’re gonna send meDepth Charge Ethel, boy she’s something special
Yeah, Depth Charge Ethel is something special
Yeah, Depth Charge Ethel is heavy metal
Yeah, heavy metal
Yeah, Depth Charge Ethel is something special to meWe done our thing
We have evolved
We’re up on our hind legs
The problem solved
We are artists
We are mathematicians
Some of us hold extremely high positionsBut we are tired
We’re hardly breathing
And we’re free
Go tell the women that we’re leavingWe’re sick and tired
Of all this self-serving grieving
All we wanted was a little consensual rape in the afternoon
And maybe a bit more in the evening
We are scientists
We do genetics
We leave religion
To the psychos and fanaticsBut we are tired
We got nothing to believe in
We are lost
Go tell the women that we’re leavingWe done our thing
We’re hip to the sound
Of six billion people
Going down
We are magicians
We are deceiving
We are free and we’re lost
Go tell the women that we’re leavingHey hey
Hey hey
Come on back now to the fray
Hey hey
Hey hey
Come on back now to the fray
Hey hey
Hey heyI saw you walkin’ down on the street
I called out from my window but you didn’t hear me
I lay down and I tried to sleep
I waited for you to walk on by againI don’t need you to set me free
I don’t want you to set me freeWell every time I see you, I get sick
And every time I think of you, well I get sick
And every time I dream of you, well I get sick
And every time I cry for you, well I get sickI don’t want you to set me free
I don’t need you to set me freeI don’t want you to set me free
I just need you to set me free
I don’t want you to set me free
I just need you to set me free
Alright come on Grinderman!
Set me free
Set me free
Set me free
Set me free
Set me free
Set me free
Set me free
Set me free
Set me free
Set me free
Set me freeMad mullahs and dirty bombs
Alert the coastal command
Ack-ack positions everyone
She’s my honey bee and here she comes
Cancer rabies SARS
Hairy beards and hurtling starsWon’t somebody touch me?
Won’t somebody touch me?Honey bee lets fly to Mars
Honey bee lets fly to Mars
Honey bee lets fly to Mars
Honey bee lets fly to MarsThere’s a kid laying on the lawn
The neighbours on the telephone
The dispatcher asks “What’s going on?”
“Please Sir, what’s going on?”
The kid is laying on the lawn
He’s been giving me shit for years
He rides his bike across my lawn
Now he’s laying on the lawnWon’t somebody touch me?
Won’t someone please touch me?Honey bee let's fly to Mars
Honey bee let's fly to Mars
Honey bee let's fly to Mars
Honey bee let's fly to MarsScud missiles Asian flu
The easily offended
We are the undefended
We are the undefended
Won’t somebody touch us?
There’s a virus come to town
Won’t somebody give me a kiss?
He’s been giving me shit for yearsHoney bee lets fly to Mars
Honey bee lets fly to Mars
Honey bee lets fly to Mars
Honey bee lets fly to Mars
Honey bee lets fly to Mars
Honey bee
Honey bee
Honey bee
Honey bee
Honey beeMy daddy was an astronaut
That’s what I was often taught
My daddy went away too soon
Now he’s living on the moonHang on to me people we’re going down
Down among the fishes in an absence of sound
It’s the presence of distance and it’s floating in time
It’s lack and it’s longing and it’s not very kindSitting here scratching in this rented room
Scratching and atapping to the man in the moon
About all the things that I’ve been taught
My daddy was an astronautWhen my love comes down to meet youWhen my love comes down to meet you againWhen my love comes down to meet youWhen my love comes down to meet you againYour mouth is a hologram made of spiders bonesYour fingers little soldiers drumming on their way back homeI thought I saw a thundercloud on the avenueLightning rattled though the streets, yeah, that little storm was youWhen my love comes down to meet you
When my love comes down to meet you againYour skin is like the falling snow, your hair is like the rising sun
Your tongue is like Kalashnikov or some other foreign gun
I see you standing there way down upon the street
You’re marching victorious with your banners of defeatOh, when my love comes down to meet you
Oh, when my love comes down to meet you again
Oh, when my love comes down to meet you
Oh, when my love comes down to meet you againWhen my love comes down to meet you
When my love comes down to meet you again
Oh, when my love comes down to meet you
Oh, when my love comes down to meet you againI read the book from back to front
It made a deep impression
Twenty thousand pages baby
I hoped for some direction
I stood before the mirror
I stared at my reflection
I’d almost disappeared
And I made no impression
I went down to my baby’s house
And I sat down on the step
Said 2000 years of Christian history baby
And you ain’t learned to love me yet
My baby looked me in the eye
My nails were bitten to the quick
She said you used to love me all night long
But you’ve gotten so thin and sickI’m gonna send you a love bomb
I’m gonna send you a love bombI read that book from back to front
Looking for some inspiration
I’d been listening to the radio
Trying to find some self expression
I been listening to the woman’s hour
I been listening to Gardeners Question Time
But every thing I try to grow
I can’t even grow a dandelion
I’ve been watching the MTV
I’ve been watching the BBC
And I’ve been searching on the Internet
And I’m getting so thin and sickdig yourself, LAZARUS!!!!!!DIG YOURSELF, LAZARUS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!dig yourself, LAZARUS!!!!!!!!(dig yourself back in that hole)Larry made his nest up in the autumn branchesbuilt from nothing but high hopes & thin airhe collected up some BABY-BLASTED mothersthey took their chances& for a while lived quite happily up therehe came from NEW YORK CITY, but he couldn’t take the pace(thought it was like DOGGY-DOG-WORLD)then he went to SAN FRANCISCO(spent a year in outer space)w/ a sweet little san franciscan girlI can hear my mother wailing& a whole lot of scraping of chairs!!!!!!!!I don’t know what it isbut there is definitely something going on upstairsdig yourself, LAZARUS!!!!!!DIG YOURSELF, LAZARUS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!dig yourself, LAZARUS!!!!!!!!(dig yourself back in that hole)I!!!!         WANT!!!!!   Y/!!!!!!!! TO!!!!!!!!   DIG!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!yeah, NEW YORK CITY, he had to get out of there& san francisco, well, I don’t know& then to LA, where he spent about a dayhe thought even the pale sky-starswere smart enough to keep well awayfrom LA!!!!!!meanwhile Larry made up names for the ladies, likeMISS BOO!!!! & MISS QUICK!!!!!!!he stockpiled weapons & took pot shots at the airhe feasted on their lovely bodies like a lunaticwrapped himself up in their soft yellow hairI can hear chants & incantations& some guy is mentioning me in his prayers!!!!!I don’t know what it isbut there is definitely something going on upstairsdig yourself, LAZARUS!!!!!!DIG YOURSELF, LAZARUS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!dig yourself, LAZARUS!!!!!!!!(dig yourself back in that hole)I!!!!         WANT!!!!!   Y/!!!!!!!! TO!!!!!!!!   DIG!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!well NEW YORK CITY, manSAN FRANCISCO, LA (I don’t know)Larry grew increasingly neurotic & obscene!!!!!!!!HE NEVER ASKED TO BE RAISED UP FROM THE TOMB!!!no one ever actually asked him to forsake his DREAMS!!!anyway, to cut a long story shortfame finally found himmirrors became his torturerscameras snapped him at every chancethe women all went back to their homes& their husbands(secret smiles in the corners of their mouths)he ended up like so many of them doback on the streets ofNEW YORK CITY!!!!!!!!! (crowd) !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!in a soup queue/a dope fiend/ (a slave)then prison/ then the madhouse/then the graveO POOR LARRY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!but what do we really know of the dead& who actually cares?????????!!!!!I don’t know what it isbut there is definitely something going on upstairsdig yourself, LAZARUS!!!!!!DIG YOURSELF, LAZARUS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!dig yourself, LAZARUS!!!!!!!!(dig yourself back in that hole)I!!!!         WANT!!!!!   Y/!!!!!!!! TO!!!!!!!!   DIG!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Little Janie she wakes up from a dreama gun like a jawbone down the waistband of her jeansmr Sandman can recite today’s lesson in his sleephe says(there oughta be a law against me going down on the street)little Janie pipes up & she says!!!!!we’re GONNA HAVE A REAL COOL TIME TONITE!!!!down the back of Janie’s jeans she had the jawbone of an assmr Sandman runs around the cornertrying to head her off at the passhe sticks his head over the fence and yellssomething way too fast(it’s today’s lesson)something about theCORRUPTION OF THE WORKING CLASS!!!!little Janie wakes up on the floor & she says!!!!we’re GONNA HAVE A REAL COOL TIME TONITE!!!!(Janie says we are all such a crush of want half-mad w/ loss we areviolated in our sleep & we weep & we toss & we turn & weburn we arehypnotised we are cross-eyed we are pimped we are bitched we are toldsuch monstrous lies—)Janie wakes up & she sayswe’re GONNA HAVE A REAL COOL TIME TONITE!!!!mr. Sandman has a certain appetite for Janie in reposehe digs her pretty knees & that she is completely nakedunderneath all her clotheshe likes to congregate around the intersection of Janie’s jeansmr. Sandman         the inseminatoropens her up like a love-letter         & enters her   dreamslittle Janie wakes up & she says!!!!we’re GONNA HAVE A REAL good TIME TONITE!!!!o yeah little Janie wakes up & she says!!!!we’re GONNA HAVE A REAL good TIME TONITE!!!!TONITE!!!! TONITE!!!! TONITE!!!!! CMON!!!!CMON!!!!CMON!!!!CMON!!!!!CMON!!!!!!!when I came up from out of the meat-lockerthe city was gonethe sky was full of lightsthe snow provides a silent coverin moonland, under the starsunder the sn&, I followed this car& I followed that car, through the s&through the snow, I turn on the radioI listen to the deejay, & it must feel niceit must feel nice to know, that somebody needs you& everything moves slow, under the starsunder the ash, through the s&& the night drifts in, the snow provides a silent cover& I’m not your favourite lover, I turn on the radio& it must feel niceo very very nice to know, that somebody needs you& the chilly winds blow, under the snowunder the stars, the whispering deejayon the radio, the whispering deejayon the radio, I’m not yr favourite loverI’m not yr favourite lover, & It must feel niceto leave no trace (no trace at all)but somebody needs you, and that somebody is meunder the stars, under the snow(yr eyes were closedyou were playing w/ the buttons on yr coatin the back of that car)in moonl&, under the starsin moonl&, & I followed that carsapped & stupidI lie upon the stones and I swoonsthe darling little dandelions have done their thing& changed from suns into moonsthe dragons roam the shopping mallsI hear theyre gonna eat our gutsif I had the strength I might pick up my sword& make some attempt to resistget ready to shield yourself!!!!!!!!!grab yr sap & yr heatersget ready to shield yourself!!!!!!!!!on the night of the lotus eatersmmmmmmmm don’t you love my babymmmmmmmm & don’t you love my baby anymorethey gilded my scales/ they fish-bowled me& they toured me round the old aquariumsthey come in their hordes to tap at the glassthe philistines and barbariansI likefloatinghere (it’s nice)theyve hung seaweed round my hips& I do the<<hula>>for the hungry ones& the lames all throw me tipsget ready to shield yourself!!!!!!!!!grab yr sap & yr heatersget ready to shield yourself!!!!!!!!!on the night of the lotus eatersmmmmmmmm don’t you love my babymmmmmmmm & don’t you love my baby anymoreget ready to shield yourself!!!!!!!!!from our catastrophic leadersget ready to shield yourself!!!!!!!!!grab yr sap & yr heaterson the night of the lotus eatersnow hit the streets!!!!!!!NowHITtheStreets!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!albert he goes west/ he crossedthe vast indifferent deserts of Arizonahe had a psychotic episode on a dude ranchthat involved a bottle of ammoniahenry he went south & lost his waydeep in the weeping forests of le vulvahe grew so wan/ he grew so sickhe ended up in a bungalow/ sucking a revolverthe light upon yr rainy streetsoffers many reflections& I wont be held responsiblefor my actionsbobby he goes north/ then goes eastthen over to new Hampshirebobby is a cautious man/ he walked intoa Concord dive/ to drink a beerdo you wanna dance????!!!!do you wanna move????!!!!do you wanna dance????!!!!do you wanna GROOVE????!!!!the world is full ofendless abstractions& I wont be held responsiblefor my actionsme/ I aint going anywherejust sit & watch the sun come up/ I like it here!!!I watch the people go ticking past/ I go hey hey heyyou know I gotta say/ I like it here!!!sha-la-la-la   sha la-la-la   sha-la-la-la-la-la-la-la!!!sha-la-la-la   sha la-la-la   sha-la-la-la-la-la-la-la!!!albert he goes west/ he crossedthe vast indifferent deserts of Arizonahe had a psychotic episode on a dude ranchthat involved a bottle of ammoniahenry he went south & lost his waydeep in the weeping forests of le vulvahe grew so wan/ he grew so sickhe ended up in a bungalow/ sucking a revolverthe light upon yr rainy streetsoffers many reflections& I wont be held responsiblefor my actionsbobby he goes north/ then goes eastthen over to new Hampshirebobby is a cautious man/ he walked intoa Concord dive/ to drink a beerdo you wanna dance????!!!!do you wanna move????!!!!do you wanna dance????!!!!do you wanna GROOVE????!!!!the world is full ofendless abstractions& I wont be held responsiblefor my actionsme/ I aint going anywherejust sit & watch the sun come up/ I like it here!!!I watch the people go ticking past/ I go hey hey heyyou know I gotta say/ I like it here!!!sha-la-la-la   sha la-la-la   sha-la-la-la-la-la-la-la!!!sha-la-la-la   sha la-la-la   sha-la-la-la-la-la-la-la!!!what we once thought we had we didnt& what we have now will never be that way againso WE CALL UPON THE AUTHOR TO EXPLAIN!!!doop   doop   doop   doop doop   doop   doop &tcour myxomatoid kids spraddle the streetsweve shunned them from the greasy-grind(the poor little things)they look so sad & oldas they mount us from behindI ask them to desist& toREFRAIN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!then WE CALL UPON THE AUTHOR TO EXPLAIN!!!doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   &tc(rosary clutched in his h&he died w/ tubes up his nose& a cabal of angels w/ finger cymbalschanted his name in code)we shook our fists at the punishing rain& WE CALLED UPON THE AUTHOR TO EXPLAIN!!!!!doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   &tche said — everything is messed up round here / everything is banaland jejune / there is a planetary conspiracy / against the likes of you& me / in this idiotconstituency of the moon—(well, he knew exactly who to blame!!!!)& WE CALL UPON THE AUTHOR TO EXPLAIN!!!!!doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   &tcPROLIX!!!!PROLIX!!!!NOTHING A PAIR OF SCISSORS CAN’T FIX!!!!doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   &tcdoop   doop   doop doop   doop   doop   doop   &tcI go guruing down the streetyoung people gather round my feetask me things – but I don’t know where to startthey ignite the powder-trail sssssstraight to my father’s heart!!!!!& once againI CALL UPON THE AUTHOR TO EXPLAIN!!!!!!!doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   &tc(we call upon the author to explain)who is this great burdensome slavering dog-thing thatmediocres my every thought???I feel like a VACUUM CLEANER!!! A COMPLETE SUCKER!!!!(it’s fucked up & he is a fucker!)but what an enormous & encyclopaedic brain!!!!!!!!!!I CALL UPON THE AUTHOR TO EXPLAIN!!!!!!doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   &tc(mmm yeah)doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   &tc(we call upon the author to explain)                                                                                                          o rampant discrimination/ mass poverty/ third world debt/ infectiousdisease/ global inequality and deepening socio-economic divisions—(it does in your brain!!!)WE CALL UPON THE AUTHOR TO EXPLAIN!!!!!!!doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   &tcnow hang on!!! my friend Doug is tapping on the window(hey Doug, how you been????????????????????)brings me a book on holocaust poetry—–complete with pictures—–then tells me to get ready for the rainand WE CALL UPON THE AUTHOR TO EXPLAIN!!!!!!!doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   &tcPROLIX!!!!PROLIX!!!!SOMETHING A PAIR OF SCISSORS CAN FIX!!!!!!!!Bukowski was a jerk!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Berryman was best!!!!!!!!!!!!he wrote like wet papier mache/ went the Hemming-way/ weirdlyon wings & with MAXIMUM PAIN!!!WE CALL UPON THE AUTHOR TO EXPLAIN!!!!!doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   &tc(I call upon the author to explain!)down in my bolthole I see they’ve publishedanother volume of unreconstructed rubbish“the waves, the waves were soldiers moving”thank you! thank you! thank you! & again!I CALL UPON THE AUTHOR TO EXPLAIN!!!!!doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   &tcWE CALL UPON THE AUTHOR TO EXPLAIN!!!doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   &tcWE CALL UPON THE AUTHOR TO EXPLAIN!!!!doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   doop   &tcPROLIX!!!!PROLIX!!!!NOTHING A PAIR OF SCISSORS CAN’T FIX!!!!!!!!(I’m so far away from you)I’m pacing up & down my roomdoes Jesus only love a man who loses?I turn on the radio——–there’s some cat on the saxophonelaying down a litany of excusesthere’s madhouse longing in my baby’s eyesshe rubs the lamp between her thighs& hopes the genie comes out singingshe lives in some forgotten song& moves like she is zombie-strongbreathes steady as the pendulum—keeps swingingoooooooo you better hold on to yourselfwell cities rust & fall to ruinfactories close & cars go cruisingin around the borders of her visionshe says o o o o o o o o oas Jesus make the flowers growall around the scene of her collisiono you know I would / I’d hold on to yourselfin the middle of the nightI try my best to chase outsidethe phantoms & the ghosts & fairy-girlson 1001 nights likes theseshe mutters open sesame& Ali Baba & the forty thieveslaunch her off the face of the worldo you know/one day I’ll come back/& hold on to yourselfo baby I’m a 1000 miles awayI just don’t know what to saycause Jesus only loves a man who bruisesbut darling we can clearly seeit’s all life & fire & lunacy& excuses & excuses & excusesif I could, I would/ I’d lie right down/ & hold on to yourselfone day I’ll come back to you & I’ll lie down & I’ll hold on to yourselfwell y/ lost a foe &y/ found yrself a friend(lie down here & be my girl)I’m back now/ baby / that manhe won’t be coming round here again(lie down here & be my girl)I’m trying to tread careful/ babyyr as brittle as the wishbone of a bird(lie down here & be my girl)we’ve been scribbled in the marginsof a story that is patently absurd(lie down here & be my girl)& let it all come downtonight(& shine & shine)& let it all come down(be my girl/be my girl)it’s a matter of some urgencyo darling can’t y/ see/ I can’t hold back the tide(lie down here & be my girl)& stop yr frantic little fingers trying to collectthe years that pour from the hole in my side(lie down here & be my girl)o don’t worry baby/ this old snakebanging at yr door has got a few skins left to shed(lie down here & be my girl)o y/ look so good/ y/ look so so goodthe rest is better left unsaid(lie down here & be my girl)let it all come downtonight(& shine & we can shine)let it all come downtonight (be my girl)one day I’ll buy a factory & I’ll assemble y/on a production line(lie down here & be my girl)I’d build a million of y/ baby& every single one of them will be mine(lie down here & be my girl)I will fill the house w/ y/ stack y/ upin every room/ we’ll have a real good time(lie down here & be my girl)but right now/ I’m sitting hereon my own/ going out of my mind(lie down here & be my girl)let it all come downtonight(& shine & shine)tonighttonight (be my girl)y/ look so goody/ look so good&tc &tc &tcI stepped out of the St. James HotelI’d left y/ behind curled up like a childwell, a change is gonna come& as the door whispered shutI walked on down the high-windowed hally/ lay sleeping on the unmade bedthe weatherman on the televisionin the St. James Hotel saidthat the rains are gonna come& I stepped out on the streets/ all sparkling cleanw/ the early morning dewmaybe it was y/ or maybe it was me?y/ came on like a punch in the hearty/ lying there w/ the light on yr hairlike a jesus of the moona jesus of the planets & the starswell I kept thinking about what the weatherman said& if the voices of the living can be heard by the deadwell the day is gonna comewhen we find out & in some kinda wayI take a little comfort from that (now & then)cause people often talk about being scared of changebut for me I’m more afraid of things staying the samecause the game is never wonby standing in any one place for too longmaybe it was y/ or maybe it was mebut there was a chord in y/ I could not find to strikey/ lying there w/ all the light in your hairlike a jesus of the moona jesus of the planets & the starsI see the many girls walking down the empty streets& maybe once or twice one of them smiles at mey/ can’t blame anyonefor saying hello/ I say hey/ I say hello/ I say hellowill it be me or will it be y/?one must stay & one must departy/ lying there in a St. James hotel bedlike a Jesus of the moona Jesus of the planets & the starsI say hello/ hello/ hellohold that chrysalis in yr palmsee it split & changeit won’t do you any harmit’s just trying to rearrangeit was born to live a daynow it flies up from yr h&(it’s beautiful)it’s the one they callyr ever-loving manwolves have carried yr babies awayo yr kids drip from their teeththe nights are long & the dayis bitter cold beyond beliefyou spread yourself like a penitentupon the mad vibrating s&& through yr teetharrange to meetyr midnight maneverybody’s coming round to my place!!!everybody’s coming round to my place!!!everybody’s coming round!!!o baby don’t y/ seeeverybody wants to beyr midnight man!!!!!don’t disturb me as I sleeptreat me gentle when I wakedon’t disturb me as I sleepeven though yr body acheseven though yr body achesto serve at his comm&betwn the warsshe still adoresher ever-loving manclose yr eyes, sleep in himdream of yr lost sons & daughtersme, I’ll raise up the dorsal fin& glide up & down the watersI’ll glide up & down the watersthen I’ll walk upon the l&& call em outthe ones who doubtyr midnight maneverybody’s coming round to my place!!!everybody’s coming round to my place!!!everybody’s coming round!!!o darling don’t y/ seeeverybody wants to beyr midnight man!!!!!it’s early in the morning& I don’t know what to doit’s early in the morning& I can’t believe it’s trueit’s early in the morning& it’s happening againI called y/ onceI called y/ twiceain’t I yr midnight maneverybody’s coming round to my place!!!everybody’s coming round to my place!!!everybody’s coming round!!!they want y/they love y/they need to beyr midnight man!!!everybody’s coming roundeverybody’s coming roundeverybody’s coming roundeverybody’s coming roundto be yr midnight man!!!to be yr midnight man!!!I walk into the corner of my room
see my friends in high places
I dont know which is which or who is whom
theyve stolen each others faces
Janet is there w/ her hi-hatting hair
full of bedroom feathers
Janet is known to make dead men groan
in any kind of weathers
I crawl over to her
I say –hey baby I say –hey Janet
–you are the one/ you are the sun
& I’m yr dutiful planet–
but she aint down w/ any of that
shes heard that shit before
I say –ah ha o yeah youre right
cause I see Betty X standing by the door
w/ more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
& its getting strange in here
yeah it gets stranger every year
more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
now Betty X is like Betty Y
minus that fatal chromosome
her hair is like the wine dark sea
on which sailors come home
I say –hey baby– I say –hey Betty X
(I lean close up to her throat)
–this light you are carrying is like a lamp
hanging from a distant boat
–It is my light– said Betty X
Betty X says –this light aint yours!!!
& so much wind blew through her words
that I went rolling down the hall
for more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
& its strange in here
yeah it gets stranger every year
more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
I turn another corner/ I go down a corridor
& I see this guy
he must be about 100 foot tall
& he only has one eye
he asks me for my autograph
I write –nobody– & then
I wrap myself up in my woolly coat
& blind him w/ my pen
cause someone must of stuck something in my drink
everything was getting strange looking
1/2 the people had turned into squealing pigs
that the other 1/2 were cooking
–let me out of here!!!– I cried
& I went pushing past
& I saw Miss Polly!!! singing with some girls
I cried, –strap me to the mast!!!!!–
for more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
its getting strange in here
& it gets stranger every year
more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
then a black girl w/ no clothes on
danced across the room
we charted the progress of the planets
around that boogie-woogie moon
I called her my nubian princess
I gave her some sweet-back bad-ass jive
I spent the next seven yrs between her legs
pining for my wife
but by and by it all went wrong
I felt all washed-up on the shore
she stared down at me from up in the storm
as I sobbed upon the floor
for more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
& dont it make you feel alone
& dont it make you wanna get right-on home
more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
here comes Alina w/ two black eyes
she’s given herself a transfusion
she’s filled herself w/ panda blood
to avoid all the confusion
I said –the sun rises & falls w/ you–
& various things about love
but a rising violence in me
cut all my circuits off
Alina she starts screaming
her cheeks are full of psychotropic leaves
her extinction was nearly absolute
when she turned her back on me
for more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
& its getting strange in here
yeah it gets stranger every year
more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
I bumped bang crash into Deanna
hanging pretty in the door frame
all the horrors that have befallen me
well Deanna is to blame
every time I see you babe
you make me feel so all alone
& I wept my face into her dress
long after she’d gone home
w/ more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
& dont it make you feel alone
dont it make you wanna get right back home
more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
dont it make you feel so sad
dont the blood rush to yr feet
to think that everything you do today
tomorrow is obsolete
technology & women
& little children too
dont it make you feel blue
dont it make you feel blue
for more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
dont it make you feel alone
dont it make you wanna get right back home
more news from nowhere
more news from nowhere
goodbye/goodbye/goodbyeI woke up this morning and I thought what am I doingYeah what am I doing hereI woke up this morning and I thought what am I doingYeah what am I doing hereWell my brother, he starts raging!Watch him rising! See him howling!And he sucked her and he sucked her and he sucked her dryAnd he bit at me and bit at me and said goodbyeUp on the twenty-ninth floor! Up on the twenty-ninth floor!Aoooooow! Aoooooow! Well, I was lying there with just my brotherWe could hear someone rattling the locksI was lying there with just my brotherHe said do you think that might be the cops?And we sucked her and we sucked her and we sucked her dryAnd we sucked her and we sucked her and we sucked her dryI was Mickey Mouse! He was the big bad wolf! Next thing you know I’m looking down belowSee a lupine child with her hair on fireLittle burning girl! She’s looking up at me!Running to the elevator! Getting in the elevator!Sixth floor, seventh floor, eighth floor, nineCome on baby,  gonna blow my mind!Oooooooow! Well, I woke up this morning and he was goneThere were posters in the airports and the stationsWe took shelterWe took shelterUnder her bodyUnder her bodyWe sucked her and we sucked her and we sucked her dryWe sucked her and we sucked her and we shaved her dryHe kissed me and kissed me and said goodbyeHe kissed me and kissed me and said goodbyeAlright! Well, no time at all, she’s walking down the hallShe’s a bat-faced girl with dynamite curlsRinging the bell-bell, banging on the doorWalking down the travelator! Walking down the travelator!Twenny-two twenny-four twenny-six twenny-nineCome on baby and blow my mind!Ooooooow! Oooooooooooow! Yeah!You know they call my girl The Snake CharmerHere she comes rising with the yellow dawnYou know I would do nothing to ever harm herI guess that I’ve loved you for too long You know they call my girl The Worm TamerShe cracks lightning like a vipers tongueShe leaves me every night and who can blame herI guess that I’ve loved you for too long For too long!For too long! You know they call my girl The Serpent WranglerEating inchworms down the bill-a-bongI spent all last night trying to untangle herI guess that I’ve loved you for too long For too long!For too long! You know they call my baby The Mambo RiderI cry storms of tears till the rising of the dawnYou know I’m only happy when I’m inside herI guess that I’ve just loved you for too long For too long!For too long! Well my baby calls me the Loch Ness MonsterTwo great big humps and then I’m goneBut actually I am the Abominable SnowmanAnd I guess I’ve loved you for too longHey little Moo MooLight as a rainbowHappy as an asteroidCrashed in the bathtubYeah sitting in the bathtubFull of her fingersFull of her fingersSitting in the bathtubSays I’m scared and lonelyNever see no oneSays I’m scared and lonelyHere come the WolfmanSaying hey little Moo MooSaying hey little Moo MooSitting in the bathtub My heathen childShe’s a heathen childShe’s a heathen childShe’s a real wild child She gotta little powderShe gotta little gunShe gotta little poison, gotta little gunSitting in the bathtub sucking her thumbSays I don’t care about BuddhaI don’t care about KrishnaI don’t care about AllahI don’t care about any of themJust sitting in the bathtub sucking her thumb Cause she’s a heathen childShe’s a heathen childShe’s a heathen childYeah she’s a real wild child Poor little Moo MooPapped and MonroedShe’s gotta little powder, gotta lil gunSitting in the bathtub having some funShe was raised by beastsPhotographed by vulturesHere come the Wolfman!The Abominable Snowman!Gotta little poisonGotta little gunSitting in the bathtubWaiting for the Wolfman to come You think your great big husband will protect youYou are wrongYou think your little wife will protect youYou are wrongYou think your children will protect youYou are wrongYou think your government will protect youYou are wrongShe don’t care about AllahShe is the AllahShe don’t care about BuddahShe is the Buddah She’s a heathen childShe’s a heathen childShe’s a heathen childShe’s a real wild child Down child! Down child!Thank God we don’t get all our hurtsAt once that would be really really bad thingWhen my baby comesThank God we don’t get all our olds at the one timeO listen to me talking in my hospital gown!When my baby comesBest thing about this place are the showersWorst thing is the visiting hoursHey, careful of the carpetWhen my baby comesThey had pistols and they had gunsThey threw me on the ground and they entered into meI was only fifteenWhen my baby comes Just how long you gonna be, my baby?Just how long you gonna be, my baby?Until you come?Just how long you gonna be, my baby?Just how long you gonna be, my baby?Until you come? She got hands as white as milkAnd she weaves a loop of spider’s silk that glistensWhen my baby comesThere is an ancient question behind her eyesThat I can’t even begin to describeHey, listen don’t do that on the carpet!When my baby comesIs there anyone out there feel they wasted their lives?On booze and drugs and husbands and wives and making money?When my baby comesWell, they had pistols and they had guns, my skirt above my headWell, I was so much older when I crawled outFrom under their mushroom cloud Just how long you gonna be, my baby?Just how long you gonna be, my baby?Until you come?Just how long you gonna be, my baby?Just how long you gonna be, my baby?Until you come?Just how long you gonna be, my baby?Just how long you gonna be, my baby?Until you come?When she comesWhen she comesYes, I knowI knowI know itFrom the dayThat I was bornYes, I knowFrom the timeI went to schoolYes, I knowFrom the timeI was teenagerI know, I knowFrom the timeI got marriedHey, I knowA million thingsAre gonna happen to meIn rooms that are much like thisBut it will never be enoughIt will never ever be enoughSo you better come over hereSo you better come over hereSo you better come over hereSo you better come over hereCause yeah I knowI knowNeverEverNoO baby, baby, baby!O my precious baby! O baby, baby, baby!Who needs the stars? You are my star!Who needs the moon? You are my moon!O baby, baby, baby! Evil! Evil! Evil! Evil! Cling to me, baby, in this rented roomWho needs the TV? You are my TV!Who needs a record player? You are my record player!O cling to me baby in this rented room Evil! Evil! Evil! Evil! Hear the ringing on the telephoneA voice from a hundred miles awayIts breath is heavy and you’re all aloneIt’s got something that it wants to sayIt’s got something that it wants to sayIts breath is heavy and you’re all aloneA voice so clear you can feel its breathComing down the telephone Evil! Evil! Evil! Evil! O my precious babyNow is the time that we must speakThey have divided us from our childrenAnd they’ve tossed them on the heapWho needs children? You are my child!Who needs children? My little lamb!Who needs children! You are my child!Crying like a demon in your daddy’s arms! Evil! Evil! Evil! Evil! O cling to me baby in this broken dreamYou are the moon! Who needs the moon?You are the stars! Who needs the stars?O cling to me little baby in this broken dreamAnd let me protect you from this evil Evil! Evil! Evil! Evil!I keep hanging around your kitchenetteAnd I’m gonna get a pot to cook you inI stick my fingers in your biscuit jarAnd crush all your gingerbread menCause I want youYeah, I want you to be my friendYeah, I want youYeah, I want to be your solitary man Try not to wake the executionerHe’s sleeping with a fireman’s axeHe leaves his glass eye on the pillow, babeAnd his dentures floating there in a glassMakes it hard to relax!Makes it hard to relax!When I want youI want you to be my friend Ah it’s getting hard to relax!It’s getting hard to get my act together! What’s this husband of yours ever given to youOprah Winfrey on a plasma screenAnd a brood of jug-eared buck-toothed imbecilesThe ugliest kids I’ve ever seenOh baby I want youI want you to be my girlfriend Maybe we could send those kids to play down on the streetHey, shouldn’t you put shoes on their feet?It’s getting hard to relaxIt’s getting hard to relaxGonna open up the windowWhose that coming up the back stairs?Tippy-toe  tippy-toe  tippy-toe  tippy-toeComing up the back stairs I can see that you don’t really dig himAnd I can see that you want it to quitBut if you want to get your hand out of the cookie jarYou gonna have to let go of the biscuitO babe I want youI want you to be my girlfriendYeah, I want youYeah, I want to be your solitary manI wanna be that man!Psychedelic invocations
Of Mata Hari at the station
I give to you
A Java princess of Hindu birth
A woman of flesh, a child of the earth
I give to you
The hanging gardens of Babylon
Miles Davis, the black unicorn
I give to you
The Palaces on Montezuma
And the gardens of Akbar’s Tomb
I give to you
The Spider Goddess and the Needle Boy
And the slave-dwarves that they employ
I give to you
A custard-coloured super-dream
Of Ali McGraw and Steve McQueen
I give to youC’mon baby, let’s get out of the cold
And gimme gimme gimme your precious love
For me to holdThe Epic of Gilgamesh
A pretty little black A-line dress
I give to you
The spinal cord of JFK
Wrapped in Marilyn Monroe’s negligee
I give to you
I want nothing in return
Just the softest little breathless word
I ask of you
A word contained in a grain of sand
That can barely walk, can’t even stand
I ask for youC’mon baby, let’s get out of the cold
And gimme gimme gimme your precious love
For me to hold
C’mon baby, come out of the cold
And gimme gimme gimme your precious love
For me to holdI saw my old friend GabrielDown the perimeter ringing a bellI said helloHey man is there something wrong?Where has everybody gone?I don’t knowWell, I put my hand across my mouthAnd I went outYeah, moving slowWhat are you doing he said to meI’m looking for my companyHe said don’t bother, no Well, next thing you l know when I took a lookGabe was trying to sell me a bookBut I got no doughHe said check it out, it’s going cheapCheck it out, it’s going cheapI’ll give it a goWell, I read that book, every pageAnd then I put it awaySaid I don’t think soIt makes slaves of all of womankindAnd corpses of the menAnd I just don’t know And we care a little bitAnd we get scared a little bitOf those two cold dead eyes that stare a little bitAnd we cry a little bitAnd we get by a little bitLet your tears all come falling down Put me on a big white steedRide it up and down your streetWrapped up in a crimson coatSail me in a great big boatI’ll sail around the waters for youKill your sons and daughters for youPut me on a big white horseSend me down to Banbury Cross It’s okay Joe it’s time to go!It’s okay Joe it’s time to go!It’s okay Joe it’s time to go!It’s okay Joe it’s time to go!The tree don’t care what the little bird singsWe go down with the dew in the morningThe trees don’t know what the little bird bringsWe go down with the dew in the morningAnd we breathe it inThere is no need to forgiveThe trees will stand like pleading handsWe go down with the dew in the morningThe trees all stand like pleading handsWe go down with the dew in the morningAnd we breathe it inThere is no need to forgiveThe trees will burn like blackened handsAnd we return with the light of the eveningThe trees will burn like blackened handsThere’s nowhere to rest, there’s nowhere to landAnd we know who you areAnd we know where you liveAnd we know there’s no need to forgiveAnd we know who you areAnd we know where you liveAnd we know there’s no need to forgiveAnd we know who you areAnd we know where you liveAnd we know there’s no need to forgiveYou wave at the sky with wide lovely eyesWaves and waves of love goodbyeThrough the garden with your secret keyDown the tunnel that leads to the seaStep onto the beach beneath the iron skiesYou wave and wave with your wide lovely eyesCrystal waves and waves of loveYou wave and say goodbyeYour dress sighs with your wide lovely stridesAll along the street and lately the stories aboundThey’ve dismantled the fun fair and shut down the ridesAnd they’ve hung the mermaids from the street lights by their hairWith wide lovely eyes you wave at the skyAnd me at the high window watching you rideThe waves of blue and the waves of loveYou wave and say goodbyeThe night expands I am expandingI watch your hands like butterflies landingAll among the myths and the legends we createAnd all the laughing stories we tell our friendsClose the windows clear up the mess it’s getting lateIt’s darker and closer to the endAnd through the tunnel and down to the seaAnd on the pebble beach your laces you untieAnd arrange your shoes side by sideYou wave and wave with wide lovely eyesDistant waves and waves of distant loveYou wave and say goodbyeThey take apart their bodies like toys for the local boysBecause they’re always there at the edge of the waterThey come from the capital these city girlsGo way down where the stones meet the seaAnd all you young girls, where do you hide?Down by the water and the restless tideAnd the local boys hide on the mound and watchReaching for the speech and the word to be heardAnd the boys grow hard, hard to be heardHard to be heard as they reach for the speechAnd search for the word on the water’s edgeBut you grow old and you grow coldYeah you grow old and you grow coldAnd they would come in their hoards these city girlsWith white strings flowing from their earsAs the local boys behind the mound think long and hardAbout the girls from the capitalWho dance at the water’s edgeShaking their assesAnd all you young loversWhere do you hide?Down by the water and the restless tideWith a bible of tricks they do with their legsThe girls reach for the speech and the speech to be heardTo be hard the local boys teem down the moundAnd seize the girls from the capitalWho shriek at the edge of the waterShriek to speak and reach for the speechYeah reach for the speech and be heardBut you grow old and you grow coldYeah you grow old and you grow coldYou grow oldTheir legs wide to the world like bibles openTo be speared and taking their bodies apart like toysThey dismantle themselves by the waters edgeAnd reach for the speech and the wide wide worldAnd, God knows, the local boysIt’s the will of loveIt’s the thrill of loveAh but the chill of loveIs comin’ onIt’s the will of loveIt’s the thrill of loveAh but the chill of loveIs comin’ onIt’s the will of loveIt’s the thrill of loveAh but the chill of loveIs comin’ down, peopleOn Jubilee StreetThere was a girl named BeeShe had a historyBut she had no pastWhen they shut her downThe Russians moved inI’m too scared, I’m too scaredTo even walk on pastShe used to sayAll those good peopleDown on Jubilee StreetThey ought to practice what they preachThose good peopleOn Jubilee StreetAnd here I come up the hillI’m pushing my wheel of loveI got love in my tummyAnd a tiny little painAnd a ten ton catastropheOn a sixty pound chainAnd I’m pushingMy wheel of love up Jubilee StreetOh look at me nowThe problem wasShe had a little black bookAnd my name was written on every pageWell a girl’s got to make ends meetEven down on Jubilee StreetI was out of place and timeAnd over the hillAnd out of my mindOn Jubilee StreetI ought to practice what I preachThese days I go down townIn my tie and tailsI got a foetus on a leashI am alone nowI am beyond recriminationsThe curtains are shutThe furniture has goneI am transformingI am vibratingI am glowingI am flyingLook at me nowShe was a catchWe were a matchI was the matchThat would fire up her snatchBut there was a catchI was no matchI was fired from her crotchNow I sit around and watchThe mermaids sun themselvesOut on the rocksThey are beyond our touchI watch and watchThem wave at meThey wave at meThey wave and slipBack into the seaAll the ones who comeAnd all the ones who goDown to the waterAll the ones who comeAnd all the ones who goDown to the seaI believe in GodI believe in mermaids tooI believe in seventy two virginsOn a chain why not why notI believe in the raptureFor I’ve seen your faceOn the floor of the oceanAt the bottom of the rainI do driver alertness courseI do husband alertness courseI do mermaid alertness courseI watch them out on the rocksThey wave at meThey wave at meThey wave and slipBack into the seaAll the ones who comeAnd all the ones who goDown to the waterAll the ones who comeAnd the ones who goDown to the seaWho took your measurementsFrom your toes to the top of your head?Who bought you clothes and new shoesAnd wrote you a book you never read?Yeah, you knowWho was it?Yeah, you know we real coolOn the far side of the morningWho was it?Yeah, you know yeah we real coolNow I hope you’re listeningAre you?Who was it you called the good shepherdRounding up the kids for their meal?Who chased your shadowRunning out behind?Clinging to your high flying heelsYour high flying, high flying, high flying heelsWho was it?Yeah, you know we real coolOn the far side of the morningWho was it?Yeah, you know we real coolAnd I hope you’re listeningAre you?Who measured the distance from the planetsRight down to your big blue spinning world?In heartbeats and tears and nervous laughterSpilling down all over you, girlWho was it?Yeah, you know we real coolAnd the world keeps on turningWho was it?Yeah, you know we real coolAnd I hope you’re listeningAre you?Sirius is eight-point-six light years awayArcturus is thirty sevenThe past is the pastAnd it’s here to stayWikipedia is heavenWhen you don’t want to remember no moreOn the far side of the morningWho was it?Yeah, you know we real coolI hope you hear meAnd you’ll callI just finished writing Jubilee StreetI lay down on my bed and fell into a deep sleepAnd when I awoke I believedI had taken a bride called Mary StanfordAnd I flew into a frenzy searching high and lowBecause in my dream the girl was very youngI said hey little girl, where do you hide?You draw lightning from the skyAll of this in her dark hairAll of this in her dark hair oh LordSee that girl comin’ on downSee that girl comin’ on downLast night your shadow scampered up the wall it flyand leaped like a black spider between your legsAnd criedMy children! My children!They are lost to usAll of this in her dark hairAll of this in her dark hair oh LordSee that girl comin’ on downSee that girl comin’ on downCan’t remember anything at allFlame trees lined the streetCan’t remember anything at allBut I’m driving my car down to GenevaI’ve been sitting in my basement patioIt was hotUp above the girls walk pastTheir roses all in bloomHave you ever heard about the Higgs Boson Blues?I’m going down to Geneva babyGonna teach it to youBlack road long and I drove and droveCame upon a crossroadThe night was hot and blackI see Robert JohnsonWith a ten dollar guitarStrapped to his backLooking for a tuneAh, well here comes Lucifer with his canon lawAnd a hundred black babies running from his genocidal jawHe got the real killer grooveRobert Johnson and the devil, manDon’t know who’s gonna rip off whoDriving my carFlame trees on fireSitting and singingThe Higgs Boson BluesI’m tired, I’m looking for a spot to dropAll the clocks have stopped in MemphisAnd the Lorraine Motel is hotIt’s hot, that’s why they call it the hot spotI take a room with a viewHear a man preaching in a language that’s completely newMaking the hot cots in the flop-house bleedWhile the cleaning ladies sob into their mopsAnd the bellhop hops and bopsAs a shot rings outTo a spiritual grooveEverybody bleedingTo the Higgs Boson BluesAnd if I die tonightBury me in my favourite yellow patent leather shoesAnd with a mummified catAnd a cone-like hatThat the Caliphate forced on the JewsCan you feel my heart beat?Can you feel my heart beat?Hannah Montana does the African SavannahAs the simulated rainy season beginsShe curses the queue at the zoo loosAnd moves on to AmazoniaCries with the dolphinsThe Mai-Mai eat the pigmy, the pigmy eat the monkeyThe monkey has a gift that he is sending back to youLook! Here come the missionaryWith his smallpox and fluSaving them savages with his Higgs Boson BluesI’m driving my car down to GenevaI’m driving my car down to GenevaOh let the damn day breakRainy days always make me sadMiley Cyrus floats in a swimming pool in Taluca LakeAnd you’re the best girl I ever hadCan’t remember anything at allI was riding, I was ridingThe sun was rising up from the fieldsI got a feeling I just can’t shakeI got a feeling that just won’t go awayYou’ve gotta just keep on pushingPush the sky awayAnd if your friends think that you should do it differentAnd if they think that you should do it the sameYou’ve gotta just keep on pushingPush the sky awayAnd if you feel you got everything you came forIf you got everything and you don’t want no moreYou’ve gotta just keep on pushingPush the sky awayAnd some people say it’s just rock and rollOh but it gets you right down to your soulYou’ve gotta just keep on pushingPush the sky awayYou fell from the skyCrash landed in a fieldNear the river AdurFlowers spring from the groundLambs burst from the wombs of their mothersIn a hole beneath the bridgeShe convalesce, she fashioned masks of twigs and clayYou cried beneath the dripping treesGhost song lodged in the throat of a mermaidWith my voiceI am calling youYou’re a young man wakingCovered in blood that is not yoursYou’re a woman in a yellow dressSurrounded by a charm of hummingbirdsYou’re a young girl full of forbidden energyFlickering in the gloomYou’re a drug addict lying on your backIn a Tijuana hotel roomWith my voiceI am calling youWith my voiceI am calling youYou’re an African doctor harvesting tear ductsYou believe…Upside down and inside out and on all eights like a funnel web, like a black fly on the ceiling, skinny white haunches high and skyward and her black oily gash, crawling backwards across the carpet to smash all over everything her wet, black fur against the sun going down over the shops and the cars and the crowds and the town.And this is the moment this is exactly what she is born to be
This is what she does and this is what she is.
And this is the moment this is exactly what she is born to be
This is what she does and this is what she is.Her eyes that look at me through her rainy hair are two round holes where the air buckles and rushes in, her body moon-blue as a jellyfish, and I’m breathing deep and I’m there and I’m also not there and spurting ink over the sheets but she remains, completely unexplained or maybe I’m just too tongue-tied to drink it up and swallow back the pain. I thought slavery had been abolished, how come it’s gone and reared its ugly head again.And this is the moment this is exactly what she is born to be
This is what she does and this is what she is.
And this is the moment this is exactly what she is born to be
This is what she is and this is what she does.This is the moment this is exactly what she is born to be
And this is what she does and this is what she is.
And this is the moment this is exactly what she is born to be
This is what she does and this is what she is.And now she’s jumping up with her leaping brain, stepping over heaps of sleeping children, disappearing and further up and spinning out again, up and further up she goes, up and out of the bed, up and out of the bed and down the hall where she stops for a moment and turns and says “Are you still here?” and then reaches high and dangles herself like a child’s dream from the ring of Saturn.Some go on, some stay behind, some never move at all
Girl in amber, trapped forever, spinning down the hall
Let no part of her go unremembered, clothes across the floor
Girl in amber, long does slumber, shuts the bathroom door
The phone, the phone, the phone, it rings, it rings, it rings no more
The song, the song, the song, it spins since 1984
The phone, the phone, the phone, it rings, the phone it rings no more
The song, the song, its been spinning now since 1984If you want to bleed, just bleed
If you want to bleed, just bleed
If you want to bleed, don’t breathe
A word, just step away
And let the world spinning nowYou turn, you turn, you kneel lace up his shoes your little blue-eyed boy
Take him by his hand, go moving spinning down the hall
I get lucky I get lucky cause I tried again
I knew the world it would stop spinning now since you’ve been gone
I used to think that when you died you kind of wandered the world
In a slumber until you crumbled, were absorbed into the earth
Well I don’t think that anymore, the phone it rings no more
The song the song it spins it spins now since 1984
The song the song the song it spins its been spinning now
And if you hold me I will tell you that you know thatIf you want to leave, don’t breathe
If you want to leave, don’t breathe
If you want to leave, don’t breathe
A word, and let the world turnThe song the song it spins the song it spins it spins no more
The phone it rings it rings and you won’t stayDon’t touch me
Don’t touch me
Don’t touch me
Don’t touch meOh, mostly I never knew which way was out
Once it was on, it was on, and that was that
The umbilicus was a faucet that fountained rabid blood
And I spun on my wheel like a laboratory ratI was an electrical storm on the bathroom floor, clutching the bowl
My blood was full of gags and other people’s diseases
And my monstrous little memory had swallowed me whole
Oh, it was the year I officially became the Bride of JesusIn love in love in love you laugh in love
You move I move and one more time with feeling
I love you love I laugh you laugh, I saw you in half
And the stars are splashed across the ceilingOh, the urge to kill somebody was basically overwhelming
I had such hard blues down there in the supermarket queues
I had a sudden urge to become someone, someone like you
Who had started out with less than anyone I ever knewIn love in love I love you love I laugh you laugh
I move you move and one more time with feeling
I love you love I laugh you laugh, I’m sawn in half
And all the stars are splashed across the ceilingAnd oh, you come shyly. And softly to the hole to drink
Come as far as the edge of my blood and then swim
And in the bathroom mirror I see me vomit in the sink
And all through the house we hear the hyena’s hymnsOf love I love you love I love you love I laugh you laugh
I move you move you move and one more time with feeling
I love you love I laugh you laugh we saw each other in half
And all the stars are splashed and splattered across the ceilingOh the fine wind is goneAnd this sweet world is so much olderThe animals pull the night around their shouldersThe flowers fall to their naked kneesHere I come now! Here I come!I hear you’ve been out there looking for something to loveThere’s a dark force that shifts at the edge of the treesIt’s all right! It’s all right!Well, you’ve turned so long and lovely it’s hard to believeThat we’re falling now in the name of the AnthroceneO the things we love we love we love, we loseIt’s our bodies that fall when we’re trying to riseI hear you’ve been out looking for something to loveSit down beside me and I’ll name it for youBehold! Behold the heaven-bound seas!The wind casts its shadow and it moves through the treesBehold the animals and the birds and the sky entireI hear you’ve been out there looking for something to set on fireThe head-bowed children fall to their kneesHumbled in the age of the AnthroceneHere they come now! Here they come, pulling you awayThere are powers at play more forceful than weCome over here and sit down and say a short prayerA prayer to the air! To the air that we breathe!And the astonishing rise of the AnthroceneCome on now! Come on now!Hold your breath while you sayIt’s a long way back and I’m begging you pleaseTo come home now. Come home nowI heard you’ve been out looking for something to loveClose your eyes, little world, and brace yourself.When you’re feeling like a loverNothing really matters anymoreI saw you standing thereIn the supermarketWith your red dress fallingAnd your eyes to the groundNothing really mattersNothing really mattersWhen the one you love is goneIt’s still in meBaby I need youIn my heartI need youCause nothing really mattersI’m standing in the doorwayYou’re walking round to my placeIn your red dressHair hanging downWith your eyes on the oneWe love the ones we canCause nothing really mattersWhen you’re standingStandingI need youI need youCause nothing really mattersWe followed the linesIn the palms of our handsYou’re standing in the supermarketHolding handsIn you red dress fallingFalling inFalling inAnd the long black cars waiting roundI will miss you when you’re goneI’ll miss you when you’re goneAway foreverCause nothing really mattersI thought I knew better. So much betterAnd I need youI need youCause nothing really mattersO that night we wrecked like a trainPurring carsIn the pouring rainNever felt right about itNever againCause nothing really mattersCause nothing really matters anymoreNot even todayNo matter how hard I tryWhen you’re standing in the aisleAnd babyNothingNothingNothingI needI needI need youI need youI need youJust breatheJust breatheI need youSunday morning, skeleton treeOh, nothing is for freeIn the window, a candleWell, maybe you can seeFallen leaves thrown across the skyA jittery TVGlowing white like fireNothing is for freeI called out, I called outRight across the seaBut the echo comes back in, dearAnd nothing is for freeSunday morning, skeleton treePressed against the skyThe jittery TVGlowing white like fireAnd I called out, I called outRight across the seaI called out, I called outThat nothing is for freeAnd it's alright nowAnd it's alright nowAnd it's alright nowOnce there was a song
The song yearned to be sung
It was a spinning song
About the king of rock ‘n’ rollThe king was first a young prince
The prince was the best
With his black jelly hair
He crashed onto a stage in VegasThe king had a queen
The queen’s hair was a stairway
She tended the castle garden
And in the garden planted a treeThe garden tree was a stairway
It was sixteen branches high
On the top branch was a nest
Sing the high cloudy nestIn the nest there was a bird
The bird had a wing
The wing had a feather
Spin the feather and sing the windThe king in time died
The queen’s heart broke like a vow
And the tree returned to the earth
With the nest and the birdBut the feather spun upward
Upward and upward
Spinning all the weather vanes
And you’re sitting at the kitchen table
Listening to the radioAnd I love you
And I love you
And I love you
And I love you
And I love you
And I love you
And I love youPeace will come
Peace will come
Peace will come in timeA time will come
A time will come
A time will come for usPeace will come
Peace will come
Peace will come in timeA time will come
A time will come
A time will come for usThe bright horses have broken free from the fields
They are horses of love, their manes full of fire
They are parting the cities, those bright burning horses
And everyone is hiding, no one makes a sound
And I’m by your side and I’m holding your hand
Bright horses of wonder springing from your burning handAnd everyone has a heart and it’s calling for something
And we are all so sick and tired of seeing things as they are
Horses are just horses and their manes aren’t full of fire
And the fields are just fields and there ain’t no Lord
And everyone is hidden and everyone is cruel
And there is no shortage of tyrants and no shortage of fools
And the little white shape dancing at the end of the hall
Is just a wish that time can’t dissolve at allThis world is plain to see
It don’t mean we can’t believe
In something and any way
My baby’s coming back now
On the next train
I can hear the whistle blowing
I can hear the mighty roar
I can hear the horses prancing
In the pastures of the Lord
Oh the train is coming
And I’m standing here to see
And it’s bringing my baby
Right back to me
Well there are some things
That are hard to explain
But my baby’s coming home now
On the 5.30 trainAll through the night we drove
And the wind caught her hair
And we parked on the beach
In the cool evening air
Well, sometimes it’s better not to say anything at allYour body is an anchor
Never asked to be free
Just want to stay in the business
Of making you happy
Well, I’m just waiting for you
Waiting for you
Waiting for you
Waiting for you
Waiting for you
Waiting for youA priest runs through the chapel
All the calendars are turning
A Jesus freak on the street
Says He is returning
Well, sometimes a little bit of faith
Can go a long, long wayYour soul is my anchor
I never asked to be freed
Well, sleep now, sleep now
Take as long as you need
Cause I’m just waiting for you
Waiting for you
Waiting for you
Waiting for you
Waiting for you
Waiting for you
To return
To return
To returnThere’s a picture of Jesus lying in his mother’s arms
Shuttered windows, cars humming on the street below
The fountain throbbed in the lobby of the Grand Hotel
We checked into room thirty-three well, wellYou were a runaway flake of snow
You were skinny and white as a wafer, yeah I know
Sitting on the edge of the bed clicking your shoes
I slid my little songs out from under youAnd we all rose from our wonder
We would never admit defeat
And we leaned out of the window
As the rain fell on the street
On the streetThey were just a sigh released from a dying star
They were runaway flakes of snow, yeah I know
They annexed your insides in a late night raid
We sent down for drinks and something to eat
The cars humming in the rain on the street belowA fountain throbs in the lobby of the Grand Hotel
The spurting font of creativity, yeah I know
Your head in a pool of your own streaming hair
And Jesus lying in his mother’s arms, just so
Up on the wall, just soAnd we all rose up from our wonder
We will never admit defeat
And we leaned out of the window
And watched the horses in the streetI lay in the forest amongst the butterflies and the fireflies and the burning horses and the flaming trees, as a spiral of children climb up to the sun, waving goodbye to you and goodbye to me as the past pulls away and the future begins, I say goodbye to all that as the future rolls in, like a wave, like a wave, and the past with its savage undertow, lets go.Come on everyone, come on everyone
A spiral of children climbs up to the sun
To the sun, to the sun, and on each golden rung
A spiral of children climbs up to the sunAnd a man called Jesus, he promised he would leave us with a word that would light up the night, oh the night, but the stars hang from threads and blink off one by one and it isn’t any fun no it isn’t any fun to be standing here alone with nowhere to be with a man mad with grief and on each side a thief and everybody hanging from a tree, from a tree, and everybody hanging from a tree.Come on everyone, come on everyone
A spiral of children climbs up to the sun
To the sun, to the sun, taking everyone
A spiral of children climbs up to the sunThere is nothing more valuable than beauty, they say, there is nothing more valuable than love and I lie amongst the leaves and the burning trees and the fields of smoke and the black butterflies and the screaming horses and your bright green eyes so beautiful, your bright green eyes, so beautiful.I am here
Beside you
Look for me
In the sun
I am beside you
I am within
In the sunshine
In the sunIf I could sail a galleon ship
Long lonely rider cross the sky
Seek out mysteries while you sleep
And treasures money cannot buyFor you know I see you everywhere
A servant girl, an empress
My galleon ship would will fly and fall
Fall and fly and fly and fall
Deep into your lovelinessAnd if we rise, my love
Before the daylight comes
A thousand galleon ships would sail
Ghostly around the morning sunAs the city rises up
As the city rises up
As the city rises up
As the city rises upFor we are not alone it seems
So many riders in the sky
The winds of longing in their sails
Searching for the other sideAnd if we rise, my love
Oh my darling precious one
We’ll stand and watch the galleon ships
Circle around the morning sunI am beside youI am beside youI am beside youI am beside youLook for meLook for meI am beside youLook for meI try to forgetTo rememberThat nothing is somethingWhere something is meant to beI am beside youI am beside youLook for meLook for meWell, I think they’ve gathered here for meI am within youYou are within meI am beside youYou are beside meI think they’re singing to be freeI think they’re singing to be freeI think my friends have gathered here for meI think they’ve gathered hereTo be beside meLook for meLook for meI am beside youYou are beside meYou are beside meLook for meOh my oh my oh my
I love my baby and my baby loves me
Oh my oh my oh my
I love my baby and my baby loves meWe talked it round and round again
Then drove the car down to the sea
We sat in the car park for an hour or two
I love my baby and my baby loves meI love my baby and my baby loves me
It’s vast and wild and it’s deep as the sea
And as the sun sinks into the water
I love my baby and my baby loves meOh my oh my oh my
Oh my oh my oh my
I love my baby and my baby loves me
Oh my oh my oh my
Oh my oh my oh my
I love my baby and my baby loves meThis world is beautiful
Held within its stars
I keep it in my heart
The stars are your eyes
I loved them right from the start
A world so beautiful
And I keep it
In my heartA ghosteen dances in my hand
Slowly twirling, twirling, all around
Glowing circle in my hand
Dancing, dancing, dancing, all aroundA ghosteen dances in my hand
Slowly twirling, twirling, all around
A ghosteen dances in my hand
Dancing, dancing, dancing, all aroundThere goes the moonlit man
Got a suitcase in his hand
He’s moving on down the road
Things tend to fall apart
Starting with his heart
He kisses you lightly and he leaves
Leaves your sleeping body
Curled and dreaming around your smile
Around your smileThe three bears watch the TV
They age a lifetime, O Lord
Mama Bear holds the remote
Papa Bear he just floats
And Baby Bear he has gone
Gone to the moon in a boat
Oh in a boatI’m speaking about love now
How the lights of love go down
You’re in the back room washing his clothes
Love’s like that you know
It’s like a tidal flow
And the past with its fierce undertow
Won’t ever let us go
Won’t ever let you goIf I could move the night I would
And I would turn the world around if I could
There is nothing wrong with loving something
You can’t hold in your hand
You’re sitting on the edge of the bed
Smoking and shaking your head
Well there’s nothing wrong with loving things
That cannot even standWell, there goes your moony man
With his suitcase in his hand
Every road is lined with animals
That rise from their blood and walk
Well  the moon won’t get a wink of sleep
If I stay all night and talk
If I stay all night and talkJesus lying in his mother’s arms
Is a photon released from a dying star
We move through the forest at night
The sky is full of momentary light
Everything we need is just too far
We are photons released from a dying star
We are fireflies a child has trapped in a jar
And everything is as distant as the stars
I am here and you are where you areWe have lived a long time here in the forest
We lie beneath the heaps of leaves
We are partial to this partial light
We cannot sleep and fear our dreams
There is no order here, nothing can be planned
We are fireflies trapped in a little boy’s hand
And everything is as distant as the stars
I am here and you are where you areWe lie among our atoms and I speak to you of things
And hope sometimes that maybe you will understand
There is no order here and there is no middle ground
Nothing can be predicted and nothing can be planned
A star is just the memory of a star
We are fireflies pulsing dimly in the dark
We are here and you are where you areThe fires continued through the night
The kid with a bat face appeared at the window
Then disappeared into the headlightsI was halfway to the Pacific Coast
I had left you in your longing
In your yearning like a ghostThere is little room for wonder, now
And little room for wildness too
We crawl into our wounds
I’m nearly all the way to MalibuI’m gonna buy me a house up in the hills
With a tear-shaped pool and a gun that kills
Cause they say there is a cougar that roams these parts
With a terrible engine of wrath for a heart
That she is white and rare and full of all kinds of harm
And stalks the perimeter all day long
But at night lays trembling in my armsAnd I’m just waiting now for my time to come
And I’m just waiting now for my time to come
And I’m just waiting now for my place in the sun
And I’m just waiting now for peace to comeAnd I’m just waiting now for my time to come
And I’m just waiting now for my time to come
And we hide in our wounds
And I’m nearly all the way to Malibu
And I know my time will come one day soon
I’m waiting for peace to come
I’m nearly all the way to Malibu
Oh babe, we’re on the run, we’re on the run
Half down the Pacific Coast
Well I left you sleeping like a ghost
In your woundsDarling your dreams are your greatest part
I carry them with me in my heart
Darling your dreams were your greatest part
I carry them with me in my heart
Somewhere, don’t knowNow I’m standing on the shore
All the animals roam the beaches
And sea creatures rise out of the sea.
And I’m standing on the shore
Everyone begins to run
The kid drops his bucket and spade
And climbs into the sunKisa had a baby but the baby died
Goes to the villagers says my baby’s sick
Villagers shake their heads and say to her
Better bury your baby in the forest quickIt’s a long way to find peace of mind, peace of mind
It’s a long way to find peace of mind, peace of mindKisa went to the mountain and asked the Buddha
My baby’s sick! Buddha said, don’t cry
Go to each house and collect a mustard seed
But only from a house where no one’s diedKisa went to each house in the village
My baby’s getting sicker, poor Kisa cried
But Kisa never collected one mustard seed
Because in every house someone had diedKisa sat down in the old village square
She hugged her baby and  cried and cried
She said everybody is always losing somebody
Then walked into the forest and buried her childEverybody’s losing someone
Everybody’s losing someone
It’s a long way to find peace of mind, peace of mind
It’s a long way to find peace of mind, peace of mind
And I’m just waiting now for my time to come
And I’m just waiting now for peace to come
For peace to comeThere are some people trying to find out whoThere are some people trying to find out whyThere are some people aren’t trying to find anythingBut that kingdom in the skyIn the sky I’m going to the riverWhere the current rushes byI’m going to the riverWhere the current rushes byI’m gonna swim to the middleWhere the water is real high Hand of GodComing from the skyHand of GodComing from the skyGonna swim to the middleStay out there for a whileWay down lowWay down lowLet the river cast its spellLet the river cast its spellOn me Singing boy sitting on the bridgeSinging boy sitting on the bridgeThrowing pennies off the edgePeasants working in the fieldsKeep their heads way down lowWay down lowDon’t want to let on what they knowWay down lowWay down lowGrab those penniesCount them, tenGrab those penniesCount them, tenHand of GodNever come back up againLet the river cast its spellOn me You’re a body of waterFlowing across the bedYou’re a body of waterSpread across the hotel bedGonna swim to the middleNever come up againLet the river cast its spellLet the river cast its spellOn me Going to the riverWhere the current rushes byGoing to the riverWhere the current rushes byGonna swim to the middleStay out there a whileLet the river cast its spellOn meWide black trees and a field of frostBirds fly low and you and me and the car are lostWe took a wrong turn somewhereInto the old timeInto the old time, for sure The trees are black and historyHas dragged us down to our kneesInto a cold timeEveryone’s dreams have diedWherever you’ve gone, darlingI’m not that far behind By the side of the road is a thing with hornsSteps back into the treesAnd a child is bornUpon this trembling earthDisplays each dayThrown across the hallucination of your hairA strip of ordinary sun, a biblical sunA colonial sun, an enlightened sunThe same sunMade always glorious at your headWell, we stop at a motel and go jumping into bedJust like the old timesWherever you are, darling, I’m not that far behind A lunatic beauty under a watery moonYou’re melting by the motel swimming poolBy the Time I Get to Phoenix on the radioYour moon to my shooting starI’m throwing my bags in the back of the carJust like the old timesJust like old times, babyAnd I’m not coming back this timeLike the old days, darlingLike the old daysI’m not coming back this timeLike the old timesLike old timesWherever you are, darling, I’m not that far behindI always seem to be saying goodbyeAnd rolling through the mountainsLike a trainMy uncle’s at the chopping blockTurning chickens into fountainsI’m a barefoot childWatching in the rainThat stepped into this songTaken a bow and stepped right out againI’m sitting on the balconyReading Flannery O’ConnorWith a pencil and a planThis song is like a rain cloudThat keeps circling overheadHere it comes around againAnd it’s only loveWith a little bit of rainAnd I hope to see you again  A rain deer frozen in the headlightsSteps back into the woodsMy heart it is an open roadWhere we ran away for goodLook over there! Look over there!The sun, a barefoot child with fire in his hairAnd then a sudden sun explodes!It was you, it was you and only youAnd it’s only loveDriving through the rainRolling down the mountainsLike a trainIt’s only loveAnd it comes on like a trainRolling down the mountainsIn the rainThe white hunter sits on his porchWith his elephant gun and his tearsHe’ll shoot you for freeIf you come around here A protester kneels on the neck of a statueThe statue says I can’t breatheThe protester says now you know how it feelsAnd kicks it into the sea I am a Botticelli Venus with a penisRiding an enormous scalloped fanI’m a sea foam woman rising from the sprayI’m coming to do you harmWith the gun in my pants full of elephant tearsAnd a seahorse on each armWith my elephant gun of tearsI’ll shoot you all for freeIf you even think about coming round hereI’ll shoot you in the fucking faceIf you think of coming around here I’m an ice sculpture melting in the sunI’m an ice sculpture with an elephant gunI’m an ice sculpture made of elephant-sized tearsRaining gas and salt upon your headsThe president has called in the FedsI’ve been planning this for yearsI’ll shoot you in the fucking faceIf you think of coming around hereI’ll shoot you for just for funI’m a statue lying on my side, in the sunWith the memory of an elephantEvaporating before your eyesBecoming a great grey cloud of wrathRoaring my salt upon the earthI will shoot you all for freeIf you so much as look at me A time is comingA time is nighFor the kingdomIn the sky Don’t ask whoDon’t ask whyThere’s a kingdom in the skyWe’re all coming homeFor a while A time is comingA time is nighFor the kingdom in the skyWe’re all coming homeFor a while A time is comingA time is nighFor the kingdom in the skyWe’re all coming homeIn a whileThis morning crawls towards us, darlingWith a memory in its pawsA child swims between two boatsHer mother waving from the shore, darlingAnd we won’t get to AmsterdamOr that lake in Africa, darlingAnd we won’t get to anywhereAnytime this year, darling And we won’t get to anywhere, darlingAnytime this yearAnd we won’t get to anywhere, babyUnless I dream you thereAnd we won’t get to anywhere, darlingAnytime this yearAnd we won’t get to anywhere, babyUnless you take me thereAnd we won’t get to AlbuquerqueAnytime this yearAnd we won’t get to anywhere, babyUnless you take me thereI am travelling appallingly aloneOn a singular roadInto the lavender fieldsThat reach high beyond the sky People ask me how I’ve changedI say it is a singular roadAnd the lavender has stained my skinAnd made me strange The lavender is tall and reachesBeyond the heavenly coverI plough through this furious worldOf which I’m truly over And sometimes I hear my nameOh where did you go?But the lavender is broadAnd it’s a singular road Once I was running with my friendsAll of them busy with their pensBut the lavender grew rareWhat happened to them? Sometimes I see a pale birdWheeling in the skyBut that is just a feelingA feeling when you die We don’t ask whoWe don’t ask whyThere is a kingdom in the skyThere is a kingdom in the skyWe walk and walkAcross the hillsWe walk and walkThrough lavender hillsWe don’t ask whenWe don’t ask whyThere is a kingdom in the skyThere is a kingdom in the skyWhere did they go?Where did they hide?We don’t ask whoWe don’t ask whyThere is a kingdom in the skyThere is a kingdom in the skyThe moon in the night sky, with pale eyesAnd pale skin and long hair covering her naked bodyAnd sometimes she’s laughing and sometimes she’s cryingAnd sometimes the moon is talking to nobodyAnd there’s a madness in her and a madness in meAnd together it forms a kind of sanity(Oh baby don’t leave me)We drove through the hills with the moon in our eyesWe bought a house in the countryWhere we could lose our mindsThe moon is a girl with tears in her eyesWho is throwing her bags in the back of the car(I am not even remotely surprised)And waving goodbye, she is waving goodbyeThe moon is a girl with the sun in her eyes Oh yeah Everywhere you are I amAnd everywhere you are I will hold your hand againOnly you are beautiful, only you are trueI don’t care what they are sayingThey can scream their fucking faces blue againI will be all alone when you are goneAll alone when you are goneAnd I will not make a single soundNot make a single soundNot make a single soundBut come softly crashing downCome softly crashing downCome softly crashing downMy pieces scattered all aroundScattered aroundScattered aroundToppled on the shattered groundOn the shattered ground And you’re waving goodbyeShe is waving goodbyeThe moon is a girl with the sun in her eyesGoodbyeGoodbyeGoodbyeOh babyOh babyGoodbyeGoodbyeGoodbyeGoodbyeOh babyGoodbyeWhat am I to believe?I’m the balcony manWhere everything is ordinary until it is notI’m the balcony manI am two hundred pounds of packed iceSitting on a chair and in the morning sunPutting on my tap dancing shoesOh my lap dancing shoesIn the morning sun I am the balcony man, I’m Fred AstaireYou think you have a plan until I hit the stairsI’m two hundred pound bag of blood and boneLeaking on your favourite chairAs I put on my lap dancing shoesIn the morning sunAnd this morning is amazing and so are youThis morning is amazing and so are youThis morning is amazing and so are youIn the morning sun What am I to think on this balcony, Fred?Where everything is amazing that stays in bedI’m a two hundred pound octopus under a sheetDancing round your world with my hands and feetAnd this much I know to be trueYeah, this much I know to be trueAnd this much I know to be trueYeah, this much I know to be trueThis morning is amazing and so are youThis morning is amazing and so are youThis morning is amazing and so are youYou are languid and lovely and lazyAnd what doesn’t kill you just makes you crazier