I stepped into an avalanche
It covered up my soul
When I am not this hunchback that you see
I sleep beneath the golden hill
You, who wish to conquer pain
You, must learn, learn to serve me wellYou strike my side by accident
As you go down to your goal
This cripple here that you clothe and feed
Is neither starved nor cold
He does not ask for your company
Not at the centre, the centre of the world
And I am on a pedestal
You did not raise me there
Your laws do not compel me now
To kneel grotesque and bare
I, myself, am the pedestal
For this ugly hump at which you stare
You who wish to conquer pain
You must learn what makes me kind
The crumbs of love that you offer me
Are the crumbs I’ve left behind
Your pain is no credential here
It’s just a shadow of my woundI have begun to ask for you
I, who have no greed
I have begun to long for you
I, who have no need
You say you’ve gone away from me
But I can feel you when you breatheDo not dress in those rags for me
I know you are not poor
And do not love me quite so fiercely now
When you know that you are not sure
It is your turn, my beloved one
It is your flesh that I wearThe Captain’s fore-arm like bunched-up rope
With A-N-I-T-A wriggling free on a skull’n’dagger
And a portrait of Christ, nailed to an anchor
Etched into his upper…O o o’ Cabin Fever!
O o o’ Cabin Fever!Slams his fucking tin-dish down
Our Captain, takes time to crush
Some Bloo-Bottles glowin in his gruel
With a lump in his throat, and lumpy mush
Thumbing a scrapbook stuck up with clag
And a morbid lump of Love in his flags
Done is the Missing, now all that remain
Is to sail forever, upon the stainCabin Fever! O o o’ Cabin Fever!The captains free-hand is a cleaver
Which he fashions his beard, and he rations his jerky!
And carves his peg outta the finest mahogany!
Or was it Ebony?
Tallies up his loneliness, notch by notch
‘Cause the sea offers nothing to hold or touch
Notch by notch, winter by winter
Notch by notch, winter by winter
Now his leg is whittled, right down to a splinterO o Cabin Fever! O o o Cabin Fever!
O the rollin sea keeps rollin on!
O the rollin sea keeps rollin on!
She’s everywhere! now that she’s gone!
She’s everywhere! now that she’s gone! Gone! Gone!
O Cabin Fever!Welcome to his table, Beloved-Unconscious
Raisin her host of hair from her crooks
And struggling to summon one of her looks!
His arm now like coiled s-s-s-snakes
Whips all the bottles that he’s drunken
Like crystal – skittles about the cabin
Of a ship they’d been sailing
Five years sunkenAlong crags and sunless cracks I go
Up rib of rock, down spine of stone
I dare not slumber where the night winds whistle
Lest her creeping-soul clutch this heart of thistleO the same God that abandoned her
Has, in turn abandoned me
And softenin’ the turf with my tears
I dug a Well of MiseryAnd, in that Well of Misery
Hangs a bucket full Sorrow
Which swings slow an’ actin’ like a bell
Its toll is dead and hollowDown that well lies the long-lost dress
Of my lil floatin girl
That muffles a tear that you let fall
All down that Well of MiseryPut ya shoulder to the handle, if ya dare
And hoist that bucket, hither
Crank n hoist n hoist n crank
Till ya muscles waste n witherO the same God that abandoned her
Has, in turn abandoned me
Deep in the Desert of Despair
I wait at the Well Of MiseryAh wanna tell ya ’bout a girl
You know, she lives in apt. 29
Why? That’s the one right up top a mine
I start to cry, I start to cry
Oh, I hear her walkin’
Walkin’ barefoot cross the floor-boards
All through this lonesome night
And I hear her crying too
Hot-tears come splashin’ on down
Leaking through the cracks
Down upon my face
I catch ’em in my mouth!
Walk and cry, walk and cryFrom her to eternity!
From her to eternity!
From her to eternity!I read her diary on her sheets
Scrutinizing every little piece of dirt
Tore out a page and stuffed it inside my shirt
Fled outta the window
And shinning it down the vine
Outta her nightmare
And back into mine
Mine! O Mine!From her to eternity!
From her to eternity!
From her to eternity!
Cry! Cry! Cry!She’s wearing them bloo-stockens, I bet!
And standin’ like this with my ear to the ceiling
Listen I know it must sound absurd
But I can hear the most melancholy sound I ever heard!
Walk and cry, kneel and cry!From her to eternity!
From her to eternity!Oh tell me why? Why? Why?
Why the ceiling still shakes?
Why the fixtures turn to serpents snakes?
This desire to possess her is a wound
And it’s naggin’ at me like a shrew
But I know, that to possess her
Is, therefore, not to desire herO o o then ya know
That lil girl would just have to go!
Go! Go!
From her to eternity!Born of the river,
Born of its ever-changing, never-changing murky water
Huck standing like a Saint, upon its deck
If ya wanna catch a Saint,
Then bait ya hook, let’s take a walk..
‘O come to me!, O come to me!’ is what the dirty-city
Say to Huck…
He go woah-woah, woah woah!
Saint Huck! Huck!
Straight into the arms of the city go Huck,
Down the beckoning streets of op-po-tunity
Huck whistles his favorite River-song…
And a bad-blind-nigger at the piano
Buts a sinister-bloo-lilt into that sing-a-long
Huck senses somethings wrong!!
Sirens wail in the city,
And lil-Ulysses turn to putty
Ol’ man River’s got a bone to pick!
Our boys hardly got a bone to suck!
He go woah-woah, woah woah!
Saint Huck! Huck!
The mo-o-o-on, its huge cycloptic eye
Watches the city streets contract,
Watched twist and cripple and crack.
Saint Huck goes on a dog’s-leg now
Saint Huck goes on a dog’s-leg nowWhy, you know the story!
Ya wake up one morning and you find your a thug
Cracking for knuckles in some dive,
Ya fingers hot and itchin, blowing smoke-rings
Ya bull neck bristling…
Still Huck he ventures on whistlingDeath reckons Huckleberrys time is up,
O woah woah woah!
Saint Huck! Huck!Yonder go Huck, minus pocket-watch an’ wallet gone
Skin shrink-wraps his skeleton
No wonder he gets thinner, what with his cold’n’skinny dinners!
Saint Huck-a-Saint Elvis, Saint Huck-a-Saint Elvis
O you remember the song ya used to sing-a-long
Shifting the river-trade on that ol’ steamer
Life is just a dream!
But ya trade in the Mighty ol’ man River
For the Dirty ol’ Man Latrine!
The brothel shift
The hustle’n’the bustle and the green-backs rustle
And all the sexy-cash
And the randy-cars
And the two dollar fucks
O o o ya outta luck, ya outta luck
Woah-woah-woah-woah
Woah-woah-woah-woahSaint Huck! Huck!She loves me, she loves me not
She loves me, she loves me notWe-e-ll, ah’ve spent seven days and seven nights
Tryin to get sunk in this brine
Don’t turn on ya water-works
‘Cause ah got me a set of water-wings, right?!
Insects suicide against the window
And my heart goes out to those lil flies
There’s a buzzin in my ear
but it’s more of her black-mail, ham Shakespeare & lies
Wings off Flies, She loves me, she loves me not
O o o o oh she loves me not!!Lord, Ah’ve discovered the recipe of Heaven
Ya git solitude and mix with sanctuary and silence,
then bake it!
Listen, I plead guilty to misanthropy
So hang me! Ah’d appreciate it!!
Witness her gate-crash my tiny hell
With some obscene tête-à-tête
If ya wanna talk to me about Love’n’Pain
Consult my ulcer, it’d be happy to co-operate
Wings off Flies, she loves me, loves me not
Eh, Joe! another outa do the job.Time to drown our lil fire, ya can keep the ashes,
Now bye bye, bye, bye, see ya in a pigs eye!
Ah will be one, in need of no-one
In this, my deepest dive..
Filler up, Joe..
Hey! Ah am obliged! Ah am obliged!
Wings off Flies, She loves me, she loves me not
Wings off Flies etc… ad infinitumWho’ll build a box for black Paul?
Ah’m enquirin on behalf of his soul
Ah’d be beholdin to ya all
For a lil information just a little indication
Just who’ll dig the hole?
When ya done ransackin his room
grabbin any damn thing that shines
throw the scraps down on the street
Like all his books and his notes
All the junk that he wrote
The whole fuckin lot right up in smoke
Ain’t there nothin sacred anymore
Who will build a box for Black Paul?
And their shootin off his guns
And their shootin off their mouths
Sayin ‘Fuck with us… and Die’
(But see that rat of fear go scuttle in their skulls)
‘Cover that eye!’ ‘Cover that frozen eye!!’Armies of ants, wade up the lil red streams
they’re heading for the mother-pool
O lord, its cruel, O man it’s hot!
And some of them ants they just climb to the spot
Black-puppet, in a hoop up against the stoning-wall
Blud-puppet go to sleep, ma-ma won’t scold ya anymore
Who’ll build a box for Black Paul?Who’ll build a box for Black Paul?
Who’ll carry it up the hill?
Who’ll bury it in the black-soil?
And from the woods and the thickets
Come the ghosts of his victims
‘We love you!’
‘Ah love you!’
‘and this will not hurt a bit,
‘we’ll go up, up, up, up, up, up into Death
‘up, up, up, up inhale its special breath
‘O yeah, Death favours those who favor death’
Here is the stone, and this the inscription it bare,
‘Below Lies black Paul, Under The Upper..
‘But Above and Beyond The Surface-Flat-Fall There.’And all the angels come on down
And all the men and women crowd around
And all the widows weeping into their skirts
And all the lil gals and the lil Boys
And the scribes with poison-pens poised
All the hullaballoo, all the noise
All the hullaballoo, all the noise
All the hullaballoo, all the noise
Black Paul clears his throat of black blud
And singing in the voice of a lonely boy…‘Don’t ask us’ say the critics and the hacks
The pen-pushers and the quacks
‘We jus cum to get dat facks!’
‘We jus cum to get dat facks!’
Hey, hey, hey, hey…We-e-e-ll, ah have cryed one thousand tears
Ah’ve cried a thousand tears its true
And the next stormy night you know,
That ah’m still cryin’ them for you.
Well, ah had a gal she was so sweet
Red dress and long red hair hangin down
And heaven just ain’t heaven
Without that lil girl hangin aroundWell, ya know ah’ve bin a bad-man
And lord knows ah dun some good things too
But ah confess, my soul will never rest
Until you, until you build
Until ya built a box for my gal, too.‘Not I,’ said the widow, adjusting this veil
‘Ah will not drive the nail,
‘Or cart his puppet-body home,
‘for ah done that one thousand times before,
‘Yeah! ah done that one thousand times or more,
‘And why should ah dress his wounds?
‘When he has wounded my dress, nighty,
‘Right across the floor
‘Here is the hammer, that build the scaffold,
and build the box…
Here is the shovel, that dug the hole,
n this ground of rocks…
And here is the pile of stones!
and for each one planted, God only knows,
a blue-rose grown…
These are the true Demon-Flowers!!
These are the true Demon-Flowers!!
Blue-Black every one! Stand back everyone!
Who’ll build a box for Black Paul?
Who’ll carry it up the hill?Looka yonder! Looka yonder! Looka yonder! A big black cloud come! O comes to Tupelo. Comes to TupeloYonder on the horizon. Stopped at the mighty river and. Sucked the damn thing dry. Tupelo-o-o, O Tupelo. In a valley hides a town called Tupelo.Distant thunder rumble. Rumble hungry like the Beast. The Beast it cometh, cometh down. Wo wo wo-o-o. Tupelo bound. Tupelo-o-o. Yeah Tupelo. The Beast it cometh, Tupelo bound.Why the hen won’t lay no egg. Can’t get that cock to crow. The nag is spooked and crazy. O God help Tupelo! O God help Tupelo!Ya can say these streets are rivers. Ya can call these rivers streets. Ya can tell ya self ya dreaming buddy. But no sleep runs this deep. No! No sleep runs this deep. No sleep runs this deep. Women at their windows. Rain crashing on the pane. Writing in the frost. Tupelos’ shame. Tupelo’s shame. O God help Tupelo! O God help Tupelo!O go to sleep lil children. The sandmans on his way. O go to sleep lil children. The sandmans on his way. But the lil children know. They listen to the beating of their blood.They listen to the beating of their blood. The sandman’s mud! The sandman’s mud! And the black rain come down. Water water everywhere. Where no bird can fly no fish can swim. Where no bird can fly no fish can swim. No fish can swim. Until The King is born! Until The King is born! In Tupelo! Tupelo-o-o! Til The King is born in Tupelo!In a clap-board shack with a roof of tin. Where the rain came down and leaked within. A young mother frozen on a concrete floor. With a bottle and a box and a cradle of straw. Tupelo-o-o! O Tupelo! With a bundle and a box and a cradle of straw.Well Saturday gives what Sunday steals. And a child is born on his brothers heels. Come Sunday morn the first-born dead. In a shoe-box tied with a ribbon of red. Tupelo-o-o! Hey Tupelo! In a shoe-box buried with a ribbon of red.O ma-ma rock you lil’ one slow. O ma-ma rock your baby. O ma-ma rock your lil’ one slow. O God help Tupelo! O God help Tupelo! Mama rock your lil’ one slow. The lil one will walk on Tupelo. Tupelo-o-o! Yeah Tupelo! And carry the burden of Tupelo. Tupelo-o-o! O Tupelo! Yeah! The King will walk on Tupelo! Tupelo-o-o! O Tupelo! He carried the burden outa Tupelo! Tupelo-o-o! Hey Tupelo! You will reap just what you sow.O say goodbye to the little girl tree.
O you know that I must say goodbye.
To the little girl tree.
This wall I built around you.
Is made out of stone-lies.
O little girl the truth would be.
An axe in thee.
O father look to your daughter.
Brick of grief and stricken morter.
With this ring.
This silver hoop of wire.
I bind your maiden mainstem.
Just to keep you as a child.O say goodbye to the little girl tree.
O you know that I must say goodbye.
To my little girl tree.
How fast your candy bones.
Reached out for me.
I must say goodbye to your brittle bones.
Crying out for me.
O you know that I must say goodbye.
O goodbye.
Even though you will betray me.
The very minute that I leave.O say goodbye to the little girl tree.
O Lord you know that I must say goodbye.
To that little girl tree.
I rise up her girl-child lumps and slipping knots.
Into her laden boughs.
And amongst her roping limbs.
Like a swollen neck vein branching.
Into smaller lesser veins.
That must all just sing and say goodbye.
And let her blossom veils fly.
Her velvet gown.
Down down down.
Down down down.
Down down down and goodbye.
For you know that I must say goodbye.To a rhythm softly tortured.
Of a motion back and forth.
That’s a rhythm sweetly tortured.
O that’s the rhythm of the orchard.
And you know that I must say goodbye.
To that little girl tree.
O goodbye.
Yes goodbye.
For you know that I must die.
Down down down.
Down down down.
Down down down and goodbye.
For you know that I must die.
Yes you know that I must die.
O-o you know that I must die.Woo-wooooooo Woo!`
In the name of pain!
(In the name of pain and suffering)
In the name of pain!
(In the name of pain and suffering)
There comes a train!
(There comes a train)
Yeah!
A long black train
(There comes a train)
Lord, a long black train.Woo-woo! Woo-woo!Punched from the tunnel
(The tunnel of love is long and lonely)
Engines steaming like a fist
(A fistful of memories)
Into the jolly jaw of morning
(Yeah! O yeah!)
O baby it gets smashed!
(You know that it gets smashed)
O baby it gets smashed!
(You know that it gets smashed)I kick every goddamn splinter.
Into all the looking eyes in the world.
Into all the laughing eyes.
Of all the girls in the world.
Oooooo-woooooh.
She ain’t never comin back.
She ain’t never comin back.
She ain’t never comin back.
She ain’t never comin back.
And the name of the pain is…
And the name of the pain is…
And the name of the pain is…
And the name of the pain is…
The name of the pain is.
A train long-sufferingOn rails of pain
(On rails of pain and suffering)
There comes a train
(There comes a train long-suffering)
On rails of pain
(On rails of pain and suffering)
O baby blow it’s whistle in the rainWoo-oo Woo! Woo-oo Woo!Who’s the engine driver?
(The engine drivers over yonder)
His name is Memory
(His name is Memory)
O Memory is his name
(Woooooo-wo!)
Destination: Misery
(Pain and misery)
O pain and misery
(Pain and misery)
O pain and misery.
Hey! Hey!
(Pain and misery)
Hey! That’s a sad lookin sack!
Oooh that’s a sad lookin sack!
And the name of the pain is…
And the name of the pain is…
Ooh the name of the pain is.
A train long-suffering.There is a train!
(It’s got a name)
Yeah! It’s a train long-suffering.
O Lord a train!
(A long black train)
Lord! Of pain and suffering.
Each night so black
(O yeah! So black)
And in the darkness of my sack.
I’m missing you baby
(I’m missing you)
And I just dunno what to do
(dunno what to do)
(Train long-suffering Train long-suffering)
Train long-suffering Train long-suffering.
O she ain’t never comin back.
O she ain’t never comin back.
O she ain’t never comin back.
O she ain’t never comin back.
And the name of the pain is…
And the name of the pain is…
The name of the train is…
The name of the train is.
Pain and suffering.Mmmmm Mmmmmm Mmmmm
I am the black crow king
Mmmmmmm Mmmmm Mmmmmmm
I am the black crow king
Keeper of the nodding corn
Bam! Bam! Bam! Bam!
All the hammers are a-talking
All the nails are a-singing
So sweet and low
You can hear it in the valley
Where live the lame and the blind
They climb the hill out of it’s belly
They leave with mean black boots on.
“I just made a simple gesture
They jumped up and nailed it to my shadow
My gesture was a hooker
You know, my shadow’s made of timber.”And the storm is a-rolling
And the storm is a-rolling
All down on meAnd I’m still here rolling after everybody’s gone
And I’m still here rolling after everybody’s gone
Ah’m still here rolling and I’m left on my own
The blackbirds have all flown!
Everyone’s rolled on!I am the black crow king
Keeper of the trodden corn
I am the black crow king
Won’t say it again
And the rain it raineth daily, Lord
And wash away my clothes
I surrender up my arms
To a company of crows
I am the black crow king
I won’t say it again
And all the thorns are a-crowning
King ruby on each spine
And the spears are a-sailing
O my o myAnd the storm is a-rolling
The storm is a-rolling
All down on me
And I’m still here rolling after everybody’s gone
I’m still here rolling after everybody’s gone
I’m still here rolling and left on my own
Those blackbirds they have all flown and
I am on my ownI am the black crow king
Keeper of the forgotten corn
The King! The King!
I’m the king of nuthin’ at all
The hammers are a-talking
The nails are a-singing
The thorns are a-crowning him
The spears are a-sailing
The crows are a-mocking
The corn is a-nodding
The storm is a-rolling
The storm is a-rolling
The storm is a-rolling down
The storm is a-rolling down
The storm is a-rolling
Down on me
Rolling down on me
Rolling down on meThese chains of sorrow, they are heavy, it is true
And these locks cannot be broken, no, not with one thousand keys
O Jailer, you wear a ball-n-chain you cannot see
You can lay your burden on me
You can lay your burden down on me
You can lay your burden down upon me
But you cannot lay down those memories.Woooo wooo wooo
Woooo wooo wooo
Here I go!
Knockin’ on Joe!
This square foot of sky will be mine til I die
Knockin’ on Joe
Woooo wooo wooo
All down the row.
Knockin’ on Joe.O Warden I surrender to you
Your fists can’t hurt me anymore
You know, these hands will never wash
These dirty Death Row floors
O Preacher, come closer, you don’t scare me anymore
Just tell Nancy not to come here
Just tell her not to come here anymore
Tell Nancy not to come
And let me die in the memory of her arms.O wooo wooo wooo
Wooo wooo woooo
All down the row.
Knockin’ on Joe.
O You kings of halls and ends of halls
You will die within these walls
And I’ll go, all down the row
Knockin’ on Joe.O Nancy’s body is a coffin, she wears my tombstone at her head
O Nancy’s body is a coffin, she wears my tombstone at her head
She wears her body like a coffin
She wears a dress of gold and red
She wears a dress of gold and red
She wears a dress of red and gold
Grave-looters at my coffin before my body’s even cold.It’s a door for when I go
Knockin’ on Joe
These hands will never mop your dirty Death Row floors
No! You can hide! You can run!
O but your trial is yet to come
O you can run! You can hide!
But you have yet to be tried!
You can lay your burden down here
You can lay your burden down here
Knockin’ on Joe
You can lay your burden upon me
You can lay your burden down upon me
Knockin’ on Joe
You can’t hurt me anymore
Knockin’ on JoeI’m a wanted man, wanted man…
I’m wanted, I’m a wanted man…
Oh yeah…
Yeah…
Ah honey, I’m a wanted manI’m a wanted man in California
I’m a wanted man in Buffalo
I’m a wanted man in Kansas City
I’m a wanted man in Ohio
I’m a wanted man in Mississippi
They want me in old Cheyenne
Wherever you may look tonight
You will see this wanted manI might be in Colorado or Georgia by the sea
Working for some man who may not know at all who I might be
If you ever see me comin’ and you know just a who I am
Don’t breathe a word to no one buddy, cause I’m a wanted manWanted man in Albuquerque
Wanted man in Syracuse
Wanted man in Tallahassee
Wanted man in Baton Rouge
Wanted man in Arizona
Wanted man in Galveston
Wanted man in El Dorado
This wanted man’s in great demandIf you ever catch me sleepin’
Just see the price flashin’ ‘bove my head
Well take look again my friend
That’s a gun pointed at your headWanted man by Lucy Watson
Wanted man by Jesse Brown
Wanted man by Nellie Johnson
Wanted man in this next townWanted man by the Boller Sisters
Wanted man by Kid Callahan
Hey Darlin’ don’t you tell me you don’t want me
Cause I’m a wanted manA wanted man who’s lost his will to live
A wanted man who won’t lay down
There’s a woman kneelin’ on my grave
Pushin’ daisies in the groundWanted man in the Windy City
Wanted man in Tennessee
Wanted man in Broken Arrow
Wanted man in Wounded Knee
Wanted man in Jackson Town
Wanted man in El Paso
I got bounties on my head in towns
I wouldn’t ever think to goWanted Man in Arizona
Wanted man in Louisville
Wanted man deep in Death Valley
Wanted man up in the Hollywood HillIf the Devil comes collectin’
Cause he doesn’t know I’m a wanted man
He’d better wear a six gun on his hip
And hold another in his handIf you love the wanted man
You best hold him while you can
Cause you’re gonna wake up one mornin’
And find the man you wanted, he is goneWanted man in New York City
Wanted man in San Anton’
Wanted man down in Lorado
Wanted man in Tupelo
Wanted man in the state of Texas
Wanted man in the state of Maine
This wanted man’s in the state of leavin’ ya baby
Jumpin’ on a midnight trainWanted man in every cat house
Wanted man in a many saloons
Wanted man is a ghost in hundred homes
A shadow in a thousand roomsWanted man down in St. Louis
Wanted man in New Orleans
Wanted man in Mussel Bay
Wanted man in Cripple Creek
Wanted man in Detroit City
Wanted man in San Anton’
But there’s one place I’m not wanted lord
It’s the place that I call homeWanted man…
Wanted man…
If the devil comes collectin’
He better hold a six gun in his handBlind Lemon Jefferson is a-comin.
Tap tap tappin with his cane.
Blind Lemon Jefferson is a-comin.
Tap tap tappin with his cane.
His last ditch lies down the road of trials
Half filled with rain.O Sycamore, Sycamore!
Stretch your arms across the storm.
Down fly two greasy brother-crows
They hop n bop They hop n bop They hop n bop
Like the tax-man come to call.
They go knock knock! knock knock!
Hop n bop hop n bop
They slap a death-writ on his door.Here come the Judgement train
Git on board!
And turn that big black engine home.
O let’s roll!
Let’s roll!
Down the tunnel.
The terrible tunnel of his world.
Waiting at his final station
Like a bigger blacker third bird.
O let’s roll!
Let’s roll!O his road is dark and lonely.
He don’t drive no cadillac.
If that sky serves as his eyes
Then that moon’s a cataract.
Let’s roll!
Yeah let’s roll!Mary, grab the baby, the river’s rising
Muddy water taking back the land
The old-frame house, she can’t take-a one more beating
Ain’t no use to stay and make a standWell the morning light shows water in the valley
Daddy’s grave just went below the line
Things to say, you just can’t take ’em with ya
This flood will swallow all you’ve left behindWon’t be back to start all over
Cause what I felt before is gone
Mary, take the child, the river’s rising
Muddy water taking back my homeThe road is gone, there’s just one way to leave here
Turn my back on what I’ve left below
Shifting land, broken farms around me
Muddy water’s changing all I knowIt’s hard to say just what I’m losing
Ain’t never felt so all alone
Mary, take the child, the river’s rising
Muddy water taking back my homeWon’t be back to start all over
Cause what I felt before is gone
Mary, take the child, the river’s rising
Muddy water’s changing all I know
Muddy water’s changing all I know
Lord, this muddy water is taking back my homeYeah, my baby left me this morning
And I don’t care now, I don’t care what the people sayYeah, my baby left me this morning
Lord knows I did everything I could
And I don’t care what the people say
Yeah I did everything I could, that I couldLord knows I did everything I could
I tried to satisfy her worried mind, that’s what I did
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I did every – I did everything I could, I did everything I could
Lord knows I did, I did what I could
I tried to satisfy her worried mindYou know she was nothing but trouble, trouble
You know she was nothing but trouble, trouble
She keep me worried all the time
Oh, god knows, god knows her movements are killing me
God knows her movements are killing meYeah, yeah, yeah, my baby stayed out all night long, all night long
She keep me worried all the time
Yeah, yeah, yeah, my baby stayed out all night long, all night long
She keep me worried all the timeYeah, yeah, yeah, I lay down last night I was thinking, I lay down
I lay down last night I was thinking
Must I kill that woman? Must I kill that woman?
Oh Lord, I get down on my knees
They tell me God forgivin’
They tell me God forgivin’ everything you do
But I don’t care what the people say
I’m gonna kill that woman
I’m gonna kill that woman, God knows
I’m gonna get down on my kneesYesterday the sun was shining but you’re finding the sun it
Don’t shine all the time
A winter day suddenly came your way
And you ran into your mindSleeping Annaleah
Weeping Annaleah
Do you think you’re ready for me?Oh and yesterday is gone forever and ever, never
To be again
You looked for the sunshine, that brought warmth to your mind
But find only rainSleeping Annaleah
Weeping Annaleah
No, you’re not ready for me
But when yesterday becomes a memory, a memory
That we uncovered in time
If you still remember that cold September
I reigned in your mind
Sleeping Annaleah
Weeping Annaleah
Then you’d be ready for meSleeping Annaleah
Weeping Annaleah
Sleeping Annaleah
Weeping Annaleah
Sleeping Annaleah
Weeping AnnaleahShe walks these hills in a long black veil
She visits my grave when the night winds wail
Nobody knows, nobody sees
Nobody knows but meTen years ago, on a cold dark night
Someone was killed ‘neath the town hall light
There were few at the scene, but they all agreed
That the slayer who ran looked a lot like meThe judge, he said: “Son, what is your alibi?
If you were somewhere else, then you won’t have to die”
But I spoke not a word, though it meant my life
For I’d been in the arms of my best friend’s wifeShe walks these hills in a long black veil
She visits my grave when the night winds wail
Nobody knows, nobody sees
Nobody knows but meNow the scaffold is high and eternity is near
She stood in the crowd but shed not a tear
But sometimes at night when the cold winds moan
In a long black veil, she cries on my bonesShe walks these hills in a long black veil
She visits my grave when the night winds wail
Nobody knows, nobody sees
Nobody knows but me
No, no, nobody knows but me
I said nobody knows but me
Yeah nobody knows but meHey Joe
Where you going with that gun in your hand?
Hey Joe
Where you going with that gun in your hand?I’m gonna shoot my baby
I caught her messin round
With another manHey Joe
I heard you shot your baby down
Hey Joe
I heard you shot your baby downYes I did I shot her
I went and put her in the groundHey Joe
Where you gonna run to now?
Hey Joe
Where you gonna run to now?I’m heading way down South
Where I can be free
I’m heading Mexico way
No hangman’s about to put a leash around meAs I walk these narrow streetsWhere a million passin feet have trod before meWith my guitar in my handSuddenly I realize nobody knows meWhere yesterday the multitudeScreamed and cried my name out for a songToday the streets are emptyAnd the crowds have all gone homeI pass a million housesBut there is no place that I belongAll I knew to give youWas song after song after songAll the truths I tried to tell youWere as distant to you as the moonBorn two-hundred years too lateAnd two-hundred years too soonI’m a child of this ageLocked into the pages of your bookAnd when I am but dust and clayAnd all the children stop to take a lookWill they marvel at the miracles I did performAnd the heights I did aspireOr will they tear out the pages of the bookTo light a fireWith the rain on my faceThere is no place where I belongDid you forget this fucking singer so soon?And did you forget my song?And what costume shall the poor girl wear
To all tomorrow’s partiesA hand-me-down dress from who knows where
To all tomorrow’s parties
And where will she go and what shall she do
When midnight comes around
She’ll turn once more to Sunday’s gown
And cry behind the doorAnd what costume shall the poor girl wear
To all tomorrow’s partiesWhy silks and plumes of yesterday’s gowns
To all tomorrow’s parties
And what shall she do with Thursday’s rags
When Monday comes around
She’ll turn once more to Sunday’s clown
And cry behind the doorAnd what costume shall the poor girl wear
To all tomorrow’s partiesFor Thursday’s child is Sunday’s clown
For whom none will go mourning
A blackened shroud, a hand-me-down gown
Of rags and silks, a costume
Fit for one who sits and cries
For all tomorrow’s partiesBy the time I get to Phoenix, she’ll be rising
And she’ll find that note that I left hanging on the door
And she’ll laugh when she reads the part
That says: “I’m leaving”
Cause I’ve left that girl so many times beforeAnd by the time I get to Albuquerque, she’ll be working
And she’ll take off time just to give me a call
And she’ll hear that phone keep right on ringing and ringing
On the wall, yeah oh, that’s allAnd by the time I make Oklahoma, she’ll be sleeping
She’ll turn softly in her sleep and call my name out low
And then she’ll cry just to think
That I’d really leave her, I left her
But time after time after time I tried to tell her so
But she just didn’t know that I would really go
That I would really go“Oh please, don’t sell me out”
Said the man with the hammer
Hammering the anvil
“I’ve been walking on the road of rocks
And I keep on hammering
Keep on hammering
Keep on hammering
Hammering the anvil.”“Don’t let the sun go down”
Said the man with the fire
Firing the furnace
“I’ve been buried in the snow
And I keep on firing
Keep on firing
Keep on firing
Firing the furnace.”“Don’t talk to me”
Said the man with the chisel
Chiseling the surface
“I’ve been sleeping far too long
And I keep on chiseling
Keep on chiseling
Keep on chiseling
Chiseling the surface.”“I don’t know what you mean”
Said the man with the shovel
Shoveling the ashes
“I’ve been diggin’ in the frozen ground
And I keep on shoveling
Keep on shoveling
Keep on shoveling
Shoveling the ashes.”Chiseling the surface
Firing the furnace
Hammering the anvil
Hammering the anvil“Don’t sell me out”
Said the man with the hammer
Hammering the anvil
“I’ve been walking on the road of rocks
And I keep on hammering
Keep on hammering
Keep on hammering
Hammering the anvil.”Shoveling the ashes
Chiseling the surface
Firing the furnace
Hammering the anvil
Keeping on, keeping on, keeping on
Hammering the anvilI’m gonna keep on, keep on, keep on, keep on hammering
I’m gonna keep on, keep on, keep on, keep on hammeringSomething’s gotten hold of my heart
Keeping my soul and my senses apart
Something’s gotten into my life
Cutting its way through my dreams like a knife
Turning me up and turning me down
Making me smile and making me frownIn a world that was small
I once lived in a time there was peace with no trouble at all
But then you came my way
And a feeling unknown shook my heart, made me want you to stay
All of my nights and all of my daysI gotta tell you now
Something’s gotten hold of my hand
Dragging my soul to a beautiful land
Something has invaded my nights
Painting my sleep with a colour so bright
Changing the grey and changing the blue
Scarlet for me and scarlet for youI’ve got to know if this is the real thing
I’ve got to know what’s making my heart sing
You smile and I am lost for a lifetime
Each minute spent with you is the right time
Every hour, every day
You touch me and my mind goes astrayI gotta tell you now
Something’s gotten hold of my hand
Dragging my soul to a beautiful land
Something has invaded my nights
Painting my sleep with a colour so bright
Changing the grey and changing the blue
Scarlet for me and scarlet for youJesus met the woman at the well
Jesus met the woman at the well
And he told her, everything that she’d done, that she’d doneAnd he said, woman, look-a here woman
Tell me where is your husband?
She said whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, I don’t have oneHe said, woman, look-a here woman
They tell me you have five husbands
And that man you have now sure ain’t oneShe went running, crying, God help me
She said whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, you must be the prophet
She said whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, you must be the prophet
Because you told me everything that I’ve done, that I’ve doneSay goodbye, my one true lover
And we’ll steal a lover’s song
How it breaks my heart to leave you
Now the carnival has goneOh my love, the dawn is breaking
And my tears are falling rain
For the carnival is over
We may never meet againLike a drum my heart was beating
And your kiss was sweet as wine
But the joys of love are fleeting
For Pierrot and ColumbineNow the cloak of night is falling
This will be our last goodbye
Though the carnival is over
I will love you till I die
I will love you till I die
Yeah, I will love you till I dieDown the road I look and there runs Mary
Hair of gold and lips like cherries
We go down to the river where the willows weep
Take a naked root for a lover’s seat
That rose out of the bitten soil
But bound to the ground by creeping ivy coils
O Mary you have seduced my soul
(And I don’t know right from wrong)
Forever a hostage of your child’s worldAnd then I ran my tin-cup heart along
The prison of her ribs
And with a toss of her curls
That little girl goes wading in
Rollin her dress up past her knee
Turning these waters into wine
Then she platted all the willow vinesMary in the shallows laughing
Over where the carp dart
Spooked by the new shadows that she cast
Across these sad waters and across my heartAnd no-one saw the carny go
And the weeks flew by
Until they moved on the show
Leaving his caravan behind
It was parked out on the south east ridge
And as the company crossed the bridge
With the first rain filling the bone-dry river bed
It shone, just so, upon the edge
Away, away, we’re sad, they saidDog-boy, atlas, half-man, the geeks, the hired hands
There was not one among them that did not cast an eye behind
In the hope that the carny would return to his own kind
And the carny had a horse, all skin and bone
A bow-backed nag, that he named “Sorrow”
Now it is buried in a shallow grave
In the then parched meadowAnd the dwarves were given the task of digging the ditch
And laying the nag’s carcass in the ground
And boss Bellini, waving his smoking pistol around
Saying, “The nag is dead meat”
“We can’t afford to carry dead weight”
The whole company standing about
Not making a sound
And turning to dwarves perched on the enclosure gate
The boss says “Bury this lump of crow bait”And then the rain came hammering down
Everybody running for their wagons
Tying all the canvas flaps down
The mangy cats growling in their cages
The bird-girl flapping and squawking around
The whole valley reeking of wet beast
Wet beast and rotten hay
Freak and brute creation
Packed up and on their wayThe three dwarves peering from their wagon’s hind
Moses says to Noah “We shoulda dugga deepa one”
Their grizzled faces like dying moons
Still dirty from the digging done
And Charlie, the eldest of the three, said
“I guess the carny ain’t gonna show”
And they were silent for a spell
Wishing they’d done a better job of burying SorrowAnd as the company passed from the valley
Into higher ground
The rain beat on the ridge and on the meadow
And on the mound
Until nothing was left, nothing at all
Except the body of Sorrow
That rose in time
To float upon the surface of the eaten soilAnd a murder of crows did circle round
First one, then the others flapping blackly down
And the carny’s van still sat upon the edge
Tilting slowly as the firm ground turned to sludge
And the rain it hammered down
And no-one saw the carny goI say it’s funny how things goI am a crooked man
And I’ve walked a crooked mile
Night, the shameless widow
Doffed her weeds, in a pile
The stars all winked at me
They shamed a child
Your funeral, my trialA thousand Marys lured me
To feathered beds and fields of clover
Bird with crooked wing cast
It’s wicked shadow over
A bauble moon did mock
And trinket stars did smile
Your funeral, my trialHere I am, little lamb
Let all the bells in whoredom ring
All the crooked bitches that she was
(Mongers of pain)
Saw the moon
Become a fang
Your funeral, my trialStranger than kindness
Bottled light from hotels
Spilling everything
Wet hand from the volcano
Sobers your skin
Stranger than kindnessYou caress yourself
And grind my soft cold bones below
Your map of desire
Burned in your flesh
Even a fool can come
A strange lit stair
And find a rope hanging there
Stranger than kindnessKeys rain like heaven’s hair
There is no home there is no bread
We sit at the gate and scratch
The gaunt fruit of passion
Dies in the light
Stranger than kindnessYour sleeping hands journey
They loiter
Stranger than kindness
You hold me so carelessly close
Tell me I’m dirty
Stranger than kindnessThey dragged Jack and his shadow
From the hole
And the bulb that burned above him
Did shine both day and night
And his shadow learned to love his
Little darks and greater lightAnd the sun it shined
And the sun it shined
And the sun it shined
A little strongerJack wept and kissed his shadow “Goodbye”
Spat from their dirty dungeons
Into a truly different din
Shat from their institutions
Into a fully different din
And his shadow soon became a wife
And children plagued his latter life
Until one night he took a skinning knife
And stole into the town
And tracked his shadow downSaid the shadow to Jack Henry
“What’s wrong?”
Jack said “A home is not a hole”
“And Shadow, you’re just a gallow that I hang my body from”
“O Shadow, your a shackle from which my time is never done”
Then he peeled his shadow off in strips
He peeled his shadow off in strips
Then kneeled his shadow on some steps
And cried “What have I done!?”And the sun it shined
And the sun it shined
I say “Love is blind”
“And is it any wonder?!”
“Is it any wonder?!”Jack and his damned shadow
Is gone
And though each one of us are want to duly mourn
And though each one of us are want to duly mourn
‘Tis done in brighter corners now
‘Tis done in brighter corners now
Now that Jack’s black shadow’s goneAnd the sun it shines
And the sun it shines
And the sun it shines
A little stronger
I swear, love is blind
Ooh love is blind
Yeah love is blind
And is it any wonder?
‘Tis done in brighter corners now
‘Tis done in brighter corners now
Now that Jack’s black shadow’s goneIt is for she that the cherry bleeds
That the moon is steeped in milk and blood
That I steal like a robber
From her altar of love
O money lender!
O cloven gender!
I am the fiend hid in her skirts
And it’s as hot as hell in here
Coming at her as I am from aboveHard on for love hard on for love
Hard on for love hard on for loveWell, I swear I seen that girl before
Like she walked straight outta the book of Leviticus
But they can stone me with stones I don’t care
Just as long as I can get to kiss
Those gypsy lips! Gypsy lips!
My aim is to hit this Miss
And I’m movin’ in (I’m movin’ in)
